WELCOME TO THE JULY
10TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT MISSION I AM
CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN.
THE TIME IS SEVEN O'CLOCK AND
WE'RE GOING TO START WITH SOME
NOTES ABOUT THE MEETING FORMAT.
FIRST OF ALL, REMOTE
PARTICIPATION IN THIS MEETING
IS AVAILABLE BY TELEPHONE OR
THROUGH ONLINE VIDEO
CONFERENCING.
PLEASE SEE THE MEETING AGENDA
FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING A
PHONE NUMBER AND THE WEB LINK
INFORMATION TO SPEAK
OF LISTENING BY PHONE HIT STAR
NINE IF YOUR VIDEO CONFERENCING
USE THE RAISED HAND BUTTON NOW
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT IT'S
AVAILABLE DURING THIS MEETING
IN PERSON OR BY TELEPHONE
DURING THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AGENDA ITEM AND DURING EACH
PUBLIC HEARING.
FINALLY, HERE'S AN OVERVIEW
OF THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR
EACH HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
SO IF YOU'RE PRESENTING TODAY
THIS IS GOING TO BE WHAT IT'S
LIKE.
FIRST, THE PLANNING SERVICES
STAFF WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THE
REPRESENTATIVE WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS AT THAT POINT THE
HEARING WILL BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THE COMMISSION WILL MAKE A
MOTION AND DISCUSS THE
APPLICATION.
FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO ROLL
CARMENERE ORIANNA WE PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL COMMISSIONER.
>> OK, I'M HERE COMMISSIONER
FORTNER HERE COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN HERE.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON YOU'RE
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND NOTING
THAT COMMISSIONER SMITH IS
ABSENT TODAY YOU HAVE QUITE A
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
NORMALLY GO INTO APPROVING THE
AGENDA.
BUT I JUST NEED TO INTERJECT
WITH SOMETHING HERE BECAUSE ONE
OF OUR COMMISSIONERS THIS IS
THEIR LAST MEETING THIS IS
CATHY FORTEN, OUR COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND WE'VE GOT THE
CERTIFICATE FOR HER AND I'M
GOING TO READ IT RIGHT NOW FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION RESOLUTION FOR CATHY
FORTNER WHEREAS CATHY FORTNER
HAS SERVED ON THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FOR SIX YEARS AND WHEREAS CATHY
HAS USED HER CONSIDERABLE
KNOWLEDGE OF ARCHITECTURE AND
PRESERVATION IN THE PURSUIT
OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION GOALS
AND WHEREAS CATHY HAS SUPPORTED
HISTORIC PRESERVATION IN ANN
ARBOR BY SUPPORTING LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND WHEREAS
CATHY SERVED AS THE VICE CHAIR
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION AND ON THE AWARDS
COMMITTEE AND THE COBBLESTONED
FARM ASSOCIATION AND WHEREAS
CATHY'S KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTIZE
WILL BE TRULY MISSED BY THE
COMMISSION THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED THAT THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
EXPRESSES ITS SINCERE GRATITUDE
AND COMMENDS CATHY FOR HER
DEDICATED SERVICE TO HISTORIC
PRESERVATION IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ON THIS 10TH DAY OF JULY
TWO THOUSAND TWENTY FIVE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WE MISS YOU.
OK, SO NOW WILL GO ON TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA THIS EVENING HEARING OR
SEEING NONE.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
ABOUT TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT A ITEM THAT'S NOT
ON THE AGENDA TODAY.
SO YOU'D APPROACH THE PODIUM
NOW OR YOU'D HIT STAR NINE OR
RAISE THE HAND.
ARE YOU COMING UP FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT?
YES, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES.
>> MY NAME IS TIM RHODES.
I LIVE AT FOUR FOUR EIGHT SOUTH
FIRST STREET IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
THANK YOU FOR THE WORK THAT YOU
DO THE EIGHTY YOU AT FOUR
THIRTY EIGHT S STREET JUST TWO
DOORS DOWN FROM ME LOOKS
FANTASTIC.
THAT'S A CREDIT TO THE WORK
THAT YOU AND STAFF HAVE DONE ON
THIS.
IT REALLY IS GREAT WORK BUT I'M
HERE TODAY BECAUSE I'M VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
THERE ARE A LOT OF FORCES OUT
THERE THAT ARE ADVOCATING FOR
EVERYTHING UP TO WIPING OUT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ENTIRELY AND
BUILDING WHATEVER THE MARKET
WILL BEAR THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN AS DRAFTED RIGHT
NOW HAS AN AREA THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO BECOME A PART THE
THE PARKING LOT THE SURFACE
PARKING LOT AT FIRST STREET IN
WILLIAM WAS SUPPOSED TO BE PART
OF THE TREE LINE TRAIL.
OK, NOW IT'S BEING DESIGNATED
AS A HUB.
THAT'S RIDICULOUS.
A TEN STORY 20 STORY BUILDING
ON A FLOODWAY AT FIRST AND
WILLIAM IS RIDICULOUS.
CONSIDER WHAT'S HAPPENING RIGHT
NOW.
CONSIDER WHAT HAPPENED TO
BRONKHORST DESTROYED ITS
HISTORY THAT WE KICK IT BACK.
CONSIDER IT HAPPENED WITH SIX
THIRTY S ASHELY WHERE WE HAD
THE OLD CLEANER'S THAT DAD WAS
GOING TO BE NOT LOW INCOME
HOUSING, NOTHING AFFORDABLE.
THAT'S LIKE FIFTY EIGHT HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET TWO POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF NEW
CONDOS BEING BUILT THERE THAT
BEAR NO RESEMBLANCE WHATSOEVER
TO THE SINGLE STORY BUSINESSES
THAT HAVE HISTORICALLY BEEN IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE.
IT'S NOT LIKE JEFFERSON STREET
MARKET.
IT'S NOT LIKE WATCHA DAIRY.
IT'S NOT LIKE ARGUS OR DOZENS
OF OTHER BUILDINGS THAT USED TO
BE BUSINESS BUSINESSES, SINGLE
STORY BUSINESSES IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE FOLKS I BELIEVE YOU
ARE THE LAST LINE OF DEFENSE
JUST LIKE IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
TWO WHEN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT WAS FORMED WE
HAVE A LOT OF FORCES WITH
DEVELOPERS WILLING TO JUST MAKE
A BUCK AND THAT'S WHAT'S GOING
ON.
PLEASE PLEASE HOLD THE LINE
AGAINST THE FORCES OF THE
DEVELOPERS AND POLITICIANS THAT
ARE PRO DEVELOPER IN THIS CITY
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR ALL
YOUR WORK.
THANK OK.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE ELSE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM AND I
BELIEVE WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
ONLINE SO WE'LL MOVE ON FROM
PUBLIC COMMENT TONIGHT AND GO
INTO ANY UNFINISHED BUSINESS WE
DO HAVE SOME UNFINISHED
BUSINESS THIS EVENING AND IT'S
EA ONE FIVE FIFTY THREE S SEVEN
STREET MARIJANA THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
PLEASE WRITE THIS IS FIVE FIVE
THREE SEVENTH STREET.
IT IS A TWO STOREY GABLE FRONT
HOUSE THAT FIRST APPEARS IN THE
18 NINETY TO NINETY ONE CITY
DIRECTORY AS THE HOME OF JOHN
EATING A CARPENTER.
IT WAS FORMERLY AT THE CORNER
OF NORTH NORTHEAST CORNER
OF JEWITT.
SO SAME LOCATION BUT THIS USED
TO BE JEWITT STREET AVENUE.
IT'S NOW SEVENTH STREET AND
WEST MADISON AND IN 2010 THE
OWNER HAD APPLICATIONS APPROVED
FOR SOLAR PANELS REMOVING THE
NON ORIGINAL SIDING AND OTHER
NON ORIGINAL FEATURES OF THE
HOUSE, ADDING A NEW ROOF ETC.
AND OVER THE LAST 15 YEARS THE
OWNER HAS UNDERTAKEN AN
EXTREMELY CONSCIENTIOUS,
CONSCIENTIOUS RESTORATION
OF THE HOUSE WITH PORTIONS
OF THE INAPPROPRIATE
INAPPROPRIATELY ENCLOSED PORCH
REMOVED AND THE PORCH RESTORED,
ARTIFICIAL SIDING REMOVED, NEW
CUSTOM WOOD STORMS INSTALLED
AND MORE.
THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A SINGLE
STORY REAR ADDITION OVER A WALK
OUT BASEMENT ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT.
AND THEN AS I MENTIONED, THESE
ARE SOME OF THE BEFORE PICTURES
DURING THE RENOVATIONS AS THE
ORDER HAS BEEN WORKING TO
REMOVE A NON ORIGINAL SIDING
AND ALL THE OTHER STUFF TO MAKE
THIS HOUSE LOOK A LITTLE BIT
MORE LIKE IT DID IN THE
NINETEEN NINETIES.
SO TONIGHT WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE PROPOSAL TO ADD A
RARE ADDITION THAT CONNECTS TO
THE HOUSE AND THEN ALSO THAT
BASEMENT ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT.
SO THIS WILL BE ON THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS THE PORTION
OF THE HOUSE THAT'S PROPOSED TO
BE REMOVED FOR THAT ADDITION.
THIS IS A NON HISTORIC
COVERED PORCH BACK HERE AND
THEN OBVIOUSLY NOT HISTORIC
VINYL WINDOWS AND THEN THIS IS
THE BACKYARD AT THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE.
SO THIS IS WHERE IT WOULD BE.
THIS IS THE GARAGE THAT'S
CURRENTLY THERE AND WON'T BE
IMPACTED AS PART OF THIS
PROPOSAL.
SO JUST SOME RENDERINGS AGAIN,
HERE'S THE HISTORIC HOUSE THEN
THIS IS THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS
THAT YOU CAN SEE HERE THE
BASEMENT ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT AND THEN A COVERED PORCH
WITH SOME ACCESS BACK HERE AND
THEN THIS IS THE GARAGE THAT
WILL BE REMAINING.
SO LOOKING AT THE FLOOR PLANS
AGAIN AT THE REAR OF THE HOUSE
IT IS INSET ON BOTH CORNERS
OF THE HISTORIC HOUSE THAT
FOUNDATION PLAN AND THE
EXISTING FOUNDATION PLAN.
SO THIS WILL CONNECT TO PARTS
OF THE HOUSE OF SOME OF THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE WILL BE
REMOVED LIKE I SHOWED EARLIER.
THIS IS THE LOWER LEVEL SO YOU
CAN START TO SEE THIS NEW SPACE
HERE.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED FIRST PLAN
FIRST FLOOR PLAN.
SO THIS WOULD BE THE ADDITION
TO THE HOUSE.
IT CONNECTS TO THIS DINING ROOM
AND KITCHEN AREA.
>> SOME ELEVATIONS HERE IS THE
SOUTH SIDE.
SO AGAIN THE HISTORIC HOUSE UP
HERE AND THEN THIS PROPOSED
ADDITION WITH THE COVERED PORCH
BACK HERE AND THEN THE GARAGE
THAT YOU CAN SEE LOWER THAN THE
EXISTING HISTORIC HOUSE LOOKING
FROM THE REAR SO YOU CAN SEE
THAT IT IS INSET.
THERE IS A DOOR HERE ON THIS
COVERED AREA.
THERE'S ALSO A DOOR THAT LEADS
DIRECTLY TO THE AIDOO HERE ON
THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S THIS ENTRANCE THAT
LEADS TO THE ADDITION TO THE
HOUSE AND THIS TO THE RADIO AND
YOU CAN SEE THAT A LITTLE BIT
BETTER HERE.
>> THERE'LL BE A DOOR HERE AND
THEN SOME WINDOWS AND THEN THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE NOT ANYTHING
CHANGING ON THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND BECAUSE OF THE INSETS
NOT SUPER VISIBLE FROM THIS
FRONT ELEVATION HERE.
SOME MORE RENDERINGS JUST TO
GET MORE OF AN IDEA HOW TO LOOK
SOME SECTIONS THROUGH THE HOUSE
SO YOU CAN SEE THIS IS THE
ADDITION AND THIS IS THE AREA
BELOW.
THEN HERE ARE SOME PHOTOS FROM
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT AND
SEE THE EXISTING HOUSE, THE
LOVELY SIDING.
SO BE SO IN THE REAR HERE IS
WHERE THE ADDITION IS PROPOSED
.
THIS IS THE PORTION THAT'S
PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED AGAIN ON
HISTORIC BACK HERE THIS IS THE
GENERAL LOCATION THAT WILL BE
THAT IT'LL BE ON THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
ALL RIGHT.
IN TERMS OF THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS NO TO
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF A
PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
FIVE DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
FINISHES AND CONSTRUCTION
TECHNIQUES ARE EXAMPLES
OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY SHALL
BE PRESERVED.
NINE NEW ADDITIONS EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
AND TEN NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT WOULD BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IT IS NOT
RECOMMENDED TO INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE,
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
AND TEXTURE OR WHICH DESTROYS
THE HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
OF THE SITE FOR ADDITIONS IS
RECOMMENDED CONSTRUCTING NEW
ADDITIONS SO THAT THERE IS THE
LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS OF HISTORIC
MATERIALS AND SO THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
ALSO RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR ADDITIONS AT
THE REAR AND INCONSPICUOUS SIDE
OF A HISTORIC BUILDING AND
LIMITING THE SIZE AND SCALE AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN ADDITIONS IN A MANNER
THAT MAKES IT CLEAR WHAT IS
HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW IS NOT
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN A NEW
ADDITION SO THAT IT IS OUT
OF SIZE SCALE IN RELATION TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING FROM THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES, IT IS
APPROPRIATE FOR ALL EDITIONS TO
LOCATE THEM ON THE LEASE
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION
AND KEEP THEM SUBORDINATE AND
VOLUME TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING
ALSO APPROPRIATE TO PLACE NEW
EDITIONS ON NON CHARACTER
DEFINING OR INCONSPICUOUS
ELEVATIONS AND LIMIT THE SIZE
AND SCALE IT IS RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN ADDITIONS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MACING
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP AND
TO LOCATE NEW ADDITIONS SO THAT
THEY DON'T DAMAGE SIGNIFICANT
SITE FEATURES APPROPRIATE TO
DESIGN.
WE READ THIS ONE ALREADY.
OH I WILL READ IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO LIMIT THE SIZE AND SCALE
OF THE ADDITIONS TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING SO THAT IT
DOES NOT DIMINISH OUR VISUALLY
OVERPOWER THE BUILDING OR THE
DISTRICT.
THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD
NOT EXCEED HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT OR HALF
OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING'S
TOTAL FLOOR AREA NOT
APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN ADDITIONS
THAT REQUIRE THE REMOVAL
OF SIGNIFICANT BUILDING
ELEMENTS OR CONSTRUCT IN
ADDITION THAT SIGNIFICANTLY
CHANGES THE PROPORTION OF BUILT
MASS TO OPEN SPACE ON THIS SITE
FOR HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO PLACE NEW
WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE FROM
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE NOT
APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN ADDITIONS
THAT OVERPOWERS OR DRAMATICALLY
ALTERS THE ORIGINAL BUILDING.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO JUST READ THROUGH
A FEW MORE NOTES FROM THE STAFF
REPORT SO I'LL JUST GO BACK TO
SOME PHOTOS.
LIKE I SAID, ADDITIONS WILL BE
AT THE REAR OF THE HOUSE AND IT
WILL BE CONNECTED TO THE BACK
AND THAT NON HISTORIC AIRPORT
SHOULD BE REMOVED.
THE HOUSE HAS NO POST NINETEEN
FORTY FOUR EDITIONS.
THIS IS THE HISTORIC HOUSE AND
NOTE THAT THE EXISTING
FOOTPRINT IS SEVEN HUNDRED
FOURTEEN SQUARE FEET AND THE
EXISTING FLOOR AREA IS THIRTEEN
HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
.
THE ADDITION IS LISTED AS FOUR
HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO SQUARE
FEET WHICH WOULD CONSTITUTE A
SIXTY ONE POINT NINE PERCENT
FOOTPRINT INCREASE AND A THIRTY
TWO POINT FOUR PERCENT FLOOR
AREA INCREASE IN TERMS
OF MATERIALS THE ADDITIONS
FOUNDATION WILL BE SPLIT BASED
CONCRETE CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS
WITH MULTIPLE WINDOWS ON THE
NORTH AND SOUTH SIDES.
THE FIRST FLOOR IS CLAD IN SIX
INCH VERTICAL TONGUE AND GROOVE
WOOD PANELING.
TRIM WILL BE CUSTOM BUILT AND
CUSTOM BUILT WOOD AND COMPOSITE
OF THE WINDOWS WILL BE ALUMINUM
CLAD, DOUBLE HUNG EXCEPT FOR
FIXED TRANSOMS.
THE MAIN FLOOR HAS THOSE
ALUMINUM CLAD FRENCH DOORS THAT
LEAD TO THAT COVERED PORCH AND
THEN THAT DOOR ON THE SIDE THAT
WOULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO THE
AIDOO WOULD BE A WOODEN DOOR
THAT MATCHES THE HOUSE'S WEST
ENTRY DOOR ROOFING WILL BE SPDM
AND THERE WILL BE THIS I'LL GO
BACK THE RENDERINGS OF THIS
GLAZED PRISM SKYLIGHT WHICH IS
A PROMINENT DESIGN FEATURE
THERE IS THE REAR DECK WHICH
HAS GUARDRAILS THAT MATCH THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
THE MATERIALS ARE NOT SPECIFIED
WOOD OR COMPOSITE.
IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE THAT
STAIRS LANDING'S TREADS AND
RISERS THAT WILL LEAD TO THAT
COVERED PORCH A FEATURE
COMPOSITE WOOD OR CEDAR BOARD
AND THE RAILINGS WILL BE CEDAR
BOARD.
I MENTIONED THAT THE ADDITION
INSET FROM BOTH REAR CORNERS
OF THE HOUSE THE DIMENSIONS ARE
NOT SPECIFIED BUT IT APPEARS TO
BE ABOUT FIVE FEET ON THE S AND
TWO FEET ON THE NORTH FOR THE
BASEMENT EDU THERE WILL BE A
CMU RETAINING WALL THAT YOU CAN
SEE RIGHT HERE NOT THE BEST
VIEW OF IT BUT THERE'S A SEMI
RETAINING WALL THAT EXTENDS
ABOUT FOUR FEET ABOVE GRADE AND
THAT A DOOR BEHIND THAT
RETAINING.
SO THE ADDITION DOES MEET SOME
OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR GUIDELINES IN THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES SUCH AS PLACING NEW
WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE AND
USING COMPATIBLE COMPATIBLE
MATERIALS AND A DESIGN THAT
MAKES CLEAR IT IS HISTORIC AND
WHAT IS NEW, HOWEVER, AT SIXTY
ONE POINT NINE PERCENT OF THE
ADDITIONS DOES NOT MEET THE
DESIGN GUIDELINE FOR MAXIMUM
FOR MAXIMUM FOOTPRINT SIZE
WHICH SHOULD NOT EXCEED FIFTY
PERCENT OF THE HOUSE PRE
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE FOOTPRINT.
SO STAFF DOES BELIEVE THAT THE
SIZE OF THE ADDITION IS OUT
OF PROPORTION FOR THE SITE AND
NOT SUBORDINATE IN VOLUME TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
IT WILL ALSO BE MORE VISIBLE
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
BECAUSE OF ITS DEPTH FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS STAFF BELIEVES THAT
THE SIZE IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE AND OUT
OF PROPORTION WHICH DIMINISHES
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
SITE.
ONE LAST NOTE THAT IN THE
SAMPLE MOTION THE ADDITIONS
FOOTPRINT WILL BE SHOWN.
IT STATES THAT THE ADDITIONS
FOOTPRINT IS SHOWN AS ON
DRAWING SHEET TEN.
THIS IS BECAUSE THERE WAS SOME
CONFUSION WITH THE DIFFERENT
DRAWING SETS ON THE DIMENSIONS
AND SIZES.
SO IT SAYS TEN ON THERE BECAUSE
OF THAT TO BE CLEAR AND THAT IS
ALL I HAVE FOR RIGHT NOW.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MARIJANA WILL NOW MOVE ON TO
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
I BELIEVE COMMISSIONER KAPLAN
AND CALDERON WERE ON THE
COMMITTEE SO PLEASE GIVE US
YOUR REPORT.
SURE.
YOU KNOW, AS WAS JUST STATED, I
THINK THE ONLY ONLY STICKING
POINT OF ALL OF OUR ISSUES IS
THE FACT THAT IT'S IT'S OUT
OF PROPORTION FROM FIFTY
PERCENT IT'S OVER BY A LITTLE
BIT AND WHAT I CAN SAY FROM
BEING ON SITE IS THAT WHILE
THAT REQUIREMENT SPECIFICALLY
RELATES TO THE STRUCTURE THAT'S
ON THE SITE, WHAT IT DOESN'T
REFLECT THAT WORKS IN FAVOR
OF THIS PROJECT IS THAT BOTH
THE OVERALL SIZE OF THE SITE IS
MORE THAN LARGE ENOUGH TO
ABSORB AN ADDITION OF THIS SIZE
AND ALSO THIS VERY SMARTLY I
THINK ADAPTS TO THE GRAVE
CHANGES OF THE SITE SO THAT
WHEN YOU'RE WHEN YOU'RE HERE
STANDING ON THIS PROPERTY
THERE'S A PRETTY NOTICEABLE
GOING FROM THE FRONT TO THE
BACK.
SO THE GREAT IS CONTINUALLY
DROPPING AND THIS ADDITION IS
BEING PUT INTO THAT THAT
DECLINING SO THAT IT'S HEIGHT
OR ITS SIZE IS LARGELY HIDDEN
BY THAT.
IT MANAGES TO BRING IN A LOT
OF NATURAL LIGHT WHILE AT THE
SAME TIME STAYING VERY LOW.
THIS WOULD YOU KNOW IN IT AND A
FLAT PIECE OF LAND THIS WOULD
BE MOSTLY UNDERGROUND AND IT
WOULDN'T BE SO NICE OF AN
ADDITION.
BUT I DO KNOW THAT WE DO BEND
ON THIS FROM TIME TO TIME AND I
WOULD IN MY PERSONAL
CONTRIBUTION I WOULD I WOULD
ADVOCATE FOR MAKING THE
EXCEPTION EXCEPTION IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE BECAUSE
OF THOSE TWO FACTORS ON THIS
SITE MAKING THIS SIZE ADDITION
NOT SO OBSTRUCTED THE REST
OF THE HOUSE.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
I MEAN I WOULD AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER KAPLAN.
I WANT TO SPEND MY FIRST FEW
MINUTES TALKING ABOUT THE SITE.
HOW LARGER IT IS BUT ALSO TAKE
A MOMENT TO TALK ABOUT THE
ELEVATION CHANGE FROM THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND YEAH, IT'S
DEFINITELY SUNK IN.
I THINK MR. KAPLAN, A GOOD JOB
OF TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK, SO NOW WE'LL HAVE THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION SO THE
APPLICANT PLEASE COME FORWARD,
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS.
YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION HERE AND
RESPOND TO WHAT YOU'VE HEARD SO
FAR.
>> OK, NICE TO MEET YOU GUYS.
MY NAME IS CHRIS HEWETT ON THE
HOMEOWNER AT ABOUT FIFTY THREE
SEVEN MY WIFE AND I WERE JUST
ON THE PROPERTY AND YOU CAN
PROBABLY SEE I WAS BITTEN BY
THAT OLD HOUSE BUG OUR FIVE
YEAR PLAN TURNED INTO FIFTEEN
AFTER BUYING A HOUSE AND
ACTUALLY WORKING THE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
NOW BECAUSE OF THIS I ALSO
APPRECIATE EVERYTHING THAT YOU
GUYS DO AND IT DID ALLOW US TO
SPEND A LOT OF TIME THAT
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU
GUYS BUT I'M SUPER EXCITED TO
BE HERE TONIGHT BECAUSE THIS IS
LIKE FIFTEEN YEARS IN THE
MAKING AND WE DID GO THROUGH A
LOT OF ITERATIONS OVER THE PAST
15 YEARS.
I'M KIND OF GLAD WE DID BECAUSE
WE GOT TO LIVE THERE WHILE YOU
KNOW, WE END UP FALLING IN LOVE
THE BACKYARD AND WE ENDED UP
SHRIEKING THIS YOU GUYS HAVEN'T
SEEN OF COURSE.
BUT YOU KNOW, OVER THE YEARS WE
HAD A SUPER LARGE DESIGN ABOUT
TWELVE YEARS AGO WHICH
OF COURSE IS OUT OF SPEC NOW
THAT WAS SCALED BACK TO A
LARGER OR A SMALLER TWO STOREY
FROM THAT LARGER FOOTPRINT.
>> BUT AGAIN, YOU KNOW, AS
YOU'VE SEEN THE WORK WE DID TO
THE HOUSE, WE REALLY WANTED TO
TO TAKE IT BACK TO THAT
ORIGINAL STATE I'VE TAKEN BACK
TO ABOUT 90 PERCENT OF WHAT IT
WAS BACK IN 1890 AND THE
NINETEEN PORCH EDITION.
SO WE REALLY WANTED THE
ADDITION TO TO KIND COMPLEMENT
THAT AND REALLY DO THE RIGHT
THING BY THE HOUSE.
SO WE SHRINK THE TWO STOREY
ADDITION WE HAD HAD DOWN TO
THIS ONE LEVEL BECAUSE THE
MACING IF YOU GUYS REMEMBER THE
HOUSE NEXT TO ME THERE WAS A
TWO STORY ADDITION ON THE BACK
AND AFTER LOOKING AT THAT LOT
IT'S LIKE NO, WE DIDN'T WANT
THAT HUGE AMASSING ON THE BACK
SO WE ENDED UP SHRINKING DOWN
TO A THE ONE STORE YOU SEE NOW
WHICH WAS STILL TOO LARGE AND
THEN WE ENDED UP MOVING THE
BATHROOM OUT OF THERE PUTTING
INTO THE BASEMENT PORTION UNDER
THE HOUSE TO EVEN SHRINK IT
FURTHER TO WHAT YOU SEE TODAY
WHICH YES, IT'S STILL OVER JUST
A LITTLE BIT BUT REALLY THE
THINGS WE'RE TRYING TO LOOK FOR
NOW BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN HERE SO
LONG AGING IN PLACE, WE HAVE
PARENTS THAT LIVE OUT OF STATE
THAT ARE AGING AS WELL AND WE
KNOW THE THE LADY WHO LIVED IN
THE HOUSE BEFORE US HAD TO LIVE
IN THE DINING ROOM BECAUSE THE
ONLY BATHROOM IN THE MAIN HOUSE
IS UPSTAIRS.
SO WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO GET
THIS KIND OF SET NOW SO WE CAN
AGE IN PLACE TO TAKE CARE
OF OUR PARENTS.
WE HAVE A MEANS TO DO THAT IN
THE ADDITION IN THE EDU PORTION
AND WE LOVE OUR BACKYARD.
WE REALLY DON'T WANT TO MESS
WITH THE ENVIRONMENT A LOT TOO.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO KEEP IT AS
SMALL AS WE CAN HAVE THE LESS
IMPACT ON THE AREAS WE CAN TO
REALLY WE'RE JUST ASKING FOR
ENOUGH TO HAVE JUST A DECENT
BEDROOM, A VERY SMALL KITCHEN
IN THAT BOTTOM SO WE CAN LIVE
IN IT AND NOT JUST BE LIKE A
BASEMENT OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO WITH THIS TYPE OF INVESTMENT
AT LEAST BE ABLE TO LIVE IN IT
YOUR OLD AGE AND BE ABLE TO
COOK AND HAVE A BATHROOM AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO WE'RE KIND OF GLAD WE HAVE
THAT TIME FOR IT TO KIND
OF THINK IN AND IT REALLY
CHANGED A LOT OVER THE YEARS.
BUT WE DO KIND OF FEEL THAT
THIS IS KIND OF THE MINIMUM
SIZE TO BE LIVABLE.
SO I APPRECIATE CONSIDERATION
IF YOU GUYS HAVE ANY TECHNICAL
QUESTIONS OR GET LOGAN HERE TO
THE BUILDER AND YOU CAN ASK HIM
SOME QUESTIONS ALSO.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH
COMMISSION.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
CHRIS?
I HAVE ONE THAT I'LL JUST TOSS
OUT JUST TO CURIOSITY.
THE IT MENTIONS THAT THE DESIGN
CONCEPT IS LIKE AN ORANGERY.
IT DOES LOOK LIKE AN ORANGE
TREE.
WHY WHY IS THAT THE DESIGN
CONCEPT HERE?
IT'S REALLY JUST A CURIOSITY
QUESTION WHAT WE THINK OF SOME
QUESTIONS I THINK OH YEAH WE
REALLY WANT SOMETHING THAT
WOULD ALLOW A LOT OF NATURAL
LIGHTING SO WE DIDN'T WANT A
VERY DARK ROOM ON THE BACK AND
ESPECIALLY THE WINTER TIME.
SO THEY REALLY ALLOW A LOT
OF NATURAL LIGHT TO COME IN AND
BRING SOME OF THE NATURE IN AS
WELL FROM OUR NICE BACKYARD WE
LOVE SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
CHRIS?
>> OK, NO QUESTIONS AT THE
MOMENT.
TAKE A SEAT WILL BE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND THEN WE MIGHT CALL
YOU BACK UP IN A MOMENT.
BUT FOR NOW THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
OK, GREAT.
OK SO NOW WE'LL OPEN UP THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
THAT'S THE ADDRESS IS FIVE FOUR
THIRTY THREE FIVE FIFTY THREE S
SEVEN STREET I I DON'T SEE
ANYONE APPROACHING THE PODIUM.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY ONE ON LINE.
VERY GOOD.
OK SO NO ONE ON LINE SO WE CAN
MOVE ON FROM THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND WE'LL ASK IF A COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION.
I'M FINE THANKS.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE FIFTY THREE
S 7TH STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ADD A FOUR
HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO SQUARE
FOOT REAR EDITION WITH THE
FOOTPRINT AS SHOWN ON DRAWING
SHEET TEN OF THE SUBMITTED
PLANS AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST, THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IN ADDITIONS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS AND RESIDENTIAL
EDITIONS SUBSECOND VERY GOOD
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL DISCUSS THE
MOTION I GUESS WE CAN YOU KNOW
WE CAN DISCUSS THE SIZE OF IT
AT SOME POINT BUT ARE THERE ANY
WELL OK LET'S DISCUSS THE SIZE
OF FIRST INCIDENT THE OBVIOUS
DISCUSSION I DO WANT TO TALK
ABOUT OTHER THINGS BUT IT MIGHT
NOT BE AN ISSUE BUT THE THE
STANDARDS AS IT SHALL NOT
EXCEED FIFTY PERCENT THIS
PROJECT DOES SO WHAT I HEARD
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS
THAT WELL THE SITE IS PLENTY
BIG FOR THIS EDITION AND SO IT
FEELS LIKE THE SITE CAN
ACCOMMODATE THE ADDITIONS AND I
GUESS THAT'S ONE FACTOR.
BUT I ALSO SEE THE OTHER FACTOR
IS NOT JUST THE SITE, IT'S ALSO
THE HOUSE DOES THE HOUSE GET
NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY AN
OVERSIZE ADDITION?
SO I THINK WE HAVE TO KEEP IN
MIND THAT THE WAY THE STANDARDS
ARE WRITTEN IT'S NOT JUST THE
SITE, IT'S IT'S THE HOUSE AS
WELL AND SO IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON THAT COMMENT?
YEAH, IN ADDITION TO THE
OVERALL SIZE OF THE SITE, THE
OTHER THING THAT I WAS
MENTIONING WAS THE CHANGE IN
GRADE THAT IT IS IT IS THAT
SECOND FACTOR WHICH MAKES THIS
THING DROP IN RELATION TO THE
ROOFLINES OF THE HOUSE.
SO I MEAN I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
TECHNICALLY DESCRIBE THE
FEELING YOU GET WHEN YOU'RE
THERE BUT THERE IS NOT A SENSE
THAT THIS ROOM IN IN ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION WOULD
COMPETE WITH WITH THE MAIN
HOUSE ON THE SITE.
THAT SEEMS COUNTERINTUITIVE TO
ME BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE IF THE
SITE IS DROPPING THEN THE
ACTUAL THING'S GOING TO GET
BIGGER, NOT SMALLER.
SO YOU WOULD FEEL MORE THEY
WERE GETTING INTO THE BACKYARD
BUT I'LL GRANT YOU THAT WHAT
I'M THINKING IS THAT IT FROM
THE FRONT IT IF YOU THINK
OF THE GRADE AS ELEVATING UP TO
SEVENTH STREET AS OPPOSED TO
DECLINING DOWN AWAY FROM
SEVENTH STREET WHAT IT SERVES
TO DO IS IT TAKES THE ORIGINAL
DISTRICT HOUSE IN IT AND IT
HOIST IT UP.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S PROMINENT TO
PEDESTRIANS AND PEOPLE IN THE
PUBLIC WHO WOULD WALK BY THIS
HOUSE.
BUT YES, IT'S STILL DROPS DOWN
ENOUGH IN THE BACK SO THAT IF
YOU'RE IN THIS ROOM AND YOU'RE
THE OWNER OF THE HOUSE ON YOUR
PROPERTY, YOU STILL MANAGED TO
GET AIR AND LIGHT WHILE YOU'RE
IN IT.
>> RIGHT.
AND THE MAIN VIEW IS OBVIOUSLY
FROM THAT SIDEWALK AND I SEE
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING OK,
COMMISSIONER ROSS, ANY
COMMENTS?
>> YEAH, I I GUESS I FEEL LIKE
ALL THE TIMES WHEN I'VE BEEN ON
THIS COMMISSION AND WE'VE MADE
KIND OF LIKE OH LET'S MAKE A
CONCESSION FOR THIS ONE I'M
GOING OVER FIFTY PERCENT FOR IN
ADDITION FEEL LIKE WHENEVER
WE'VE GONE BACK I'VE GONE BACK
I GO YOU KNOW YEAH.
I THINK IT'S TOO BIG AND I
THINK I MEAN I QUESTIONED LIKE
YOU WERE SAYING COMMISSIONER
ROCKLIN THAT WITH A DROP IN
GRADE YOU'LL JUST SEE MORE
OF THE KIND OF LOWER KIND
OF BASEMENT LEVEL.
I MEAN I DO APPRECIATE I THINK
THE DESIGN IS REALLY COOL AND I
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT IT'S
BUMPING UP TO THE SECOND STORY.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE THAT KIND
OF BLOOMING KIND OF ADDITION
BUT I FEEL LIKE WE HAVE THAT
FIFTY PERCENT NUMBER ONE REASON
YOU KNOW, NOTED THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE I THINK IT'S A
GREAT B OH SORRY.
THE USE OF THE WAY THEY FIT THE
ADAMU INTO A LOT I THINK IS
GREAT.
THAT'S WONDERFUL DESIGN BUT
IT'S TOO BIG.
CAN YOU CAN YOU ELABORATE MORE
ON TOO BIG LIKE WHAT?
>> WELL I THINK YOU KNOW AS MR.
ROSS SAID THE FIFTY PERCENT IS
THERE FOR A REASON AND SO I
THINK IT DOES IT'S IT'S OUT
OF SCALE WITH THE HOUSE YOU MY
COMMENT AND THAT IS WELL I
AGREE AND I WE HAVE GONE OVER
THAT NUMBER AND FOR ME WHEN I
VOTE TO APPROVE SOMETHING
THAT'S OVER THAT NUMBER IT'S
TYPICALLY BECAUSE THE DESIGNER
HAS DONE SOMETHING TO SOMEHOW
MAKE IT BETTER, MAKE IT LESS
OBTRUSIVE OR SOMETHING BY
CREATING LIKE A WE CALL IT A
HYPHEN YOU KNOW, LIKE CREATE
SOMETHING THAT LIKE SEPARATES
IT FROM THE HOUSE AND THEN THE
ADDITION HAPPENS, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING LIKE THAT WHERE
THEY'RE USING SOME OF THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE TO IMPROVE THE
COMPATIBILITY OF THE DESIGN IN
THIS CASE.
>> I DON'T SEE THAT.
I SEE THAT THE ADDITION I
ACTUALLY IT'S KIND OF HARD TO
TELL BUT LIKE WHERE IT MEETS
THE HOUSE IS IT?
YEAH, IT'S THE SAME WITH ALL
THE WAY BACK.
IT DOES FEEL LIKE IS IT THE
WINDOW CAN WE SEE AN ELEVATION
SIDE ELEVATION.
>> YEAH OK SO LIKE THERE IS I
THINK MAYBE A DESIGNER IS DOING
SOMETHING THERE WHERE THEY HAVE
THAT KIND OF SMALLER YOU KNOW
MAYBE THAT'S AN ATTEMPT TO KIND
OF SEPARATE OUT AND AND KIND
OF GET YOU FROM THE HISTORIC TO
THE NEW.
BUT TO ME IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
HELPING WITH THE WITH THE ISSUE
THAT IT'S YOU KNOW, ESPECIALLY
IN THIS VIEW AND ALSO THE OTHER
SIDE ELEVATION IT'S IT FEELS
LIKE ALMOST JUST AS LIKE WHEN
YOU ADD THE PORCH I KNOW THOSE
THINGS ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE
FIFTY PERCENT BUT IT'S ALL
INCLUDED WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
LIKE IS THIS A COMPATIBLE
EDITION AND IT JUST FEELS
REALLY LONG AND I THINK THAT IT
IS WELL IT'S OVER THE FIFTY
PERCENT AND THEN THE OTHER
THING I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
WAS JUST IS THIS A COMPATIBLE
EDITION LIKE EVEN IF IT WAS
SMALLER LIKE DO WE THINK THAT
THIS THIS ADDITION IS
COMPATIBLE?
I THINK THAT I AGREE WITH THE
STAFF REPORT THAT IT'S VERY
DIFFERENTIATED.
IT REALLY LOOKS DIFFERENT THAN
THE HOUSE AND THAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT BUT ALSO IMPORTANT IN
THE STANDARDS IS IS SOME SORT
OF BALANCE WHERE YOU'RE
DIFFERENTIATING BUT THEN YOU'RE
ALSO MAKING IT COMPATIBLE IN
SOME WAY.
AND I'LL JUST I'LL READ SOME
OF THE STANDARDS HERE LIKE FOR
ALL EDITIONS APPROPRIATE DESIGN
IN THE EDITION SO IT IS
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MACING
MATERIALS RELATED CHIPS
OF SOLIDS TO VOID'S AND
PROPORTION OF OPENINGS.
SO IF THAT IS APPROPRIATE IT'S
REALLY HARD TO ARGUE THAT THAT
THIS ADDITION FOLLOWS THAT YOU
KNOW, YOU DON'T HAVE TO IT'S
NOT LIKE YOU HAVE TO FOLLOW
EVERY SINGLE ONE BUT JUST
LOOKING THINKING OF IS THIS
APPROPRIATE?
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE ACCORDING
TO THAT.
>> AND THEN OBVIOUSLY THERE'S
THE THE ONE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT WHICH IS LIMITING THE
SIZE AND SCALE THE ADDITION IN
RELATION TO SHIP TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
SO THAT DOES NOT DIMINISH OR
VISUALLY OVERPOWER THE BUILDING
OR THE DISTRICT.
SO I THINK WE'RE ALL DRAWN TO
THIS REALLY KIND OF INTERESTING
AND BEAUTIFUL ADDITION.
BUT THAT'S ALSO TO ME WHEN I
READ THAT STANDARD IT'S YOU
DON'T YOU DON'T WANT IT TO
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING.
SO WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING WHEN
YOU'RE WALKING DOWN THE STREET
THE WHEN I SEE THIS I REALIZE
OH MY GOSH, THAT'S A LOOK AT
THAT THING IN THE BACK THERE.
IT'S AMAZING AND IT'S TO ME
THAT IS I AM NOT FEELING LIKE I
CAN APPROVE THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE I JUST FEEL LIKE THAT
WILL BE THE EXPERIENCE AND TO
ME THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I'M
SAYING THAT IS NOT IT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE IN THE STANDARDS
FOR AN AUDITION TO DO THAT.
I AM AN ARCHITECT AND I FEEL
LIKE I WANT THERE TO BE REALLY
INTERESTING DESIGNS IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
SO THAT IS ALWAYS LIKE A REAL
CHALLENGE FOR ME.
LIKE CAN CAN WE FIND A WAY TO
ACTUALLY DO INTERESTING COOL
DESIGNS BUT ALSO SOMEHOW MEET
THESE STANDARDS?
OK, THAT TOOK A WHILE FOR ME TO
GET MY COMMENTS OUT BUT NOW
THAT'S DONE.
DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD OR DID I SORT OF I THINK
I SUMMARIZE MAYBE TWO OF THE
COMMISSIONERS FEELINGS THERE
HOPEFULLY DID IT I DON'T THINK
I DIDN'T CONTRADICT THAT BUT IT
SOUNDS LIKE THE OTHER THERE'S
TWO OTHER COMMISSIONERS THAT
SOUND LIKE THEY'RE FEELING
DIFFERENT.
DO YOU WANT TO RESTATE ANYTHING
OR DO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'VE
STATED WHAT YOU WANT STATE AND
A COUPLE OTHER THINGS OUT JUST
FOR THE SAKE OF , YOU KNOW,
ADDING TO THE CONVERSATION IF
IF I WERE TO IMAGINE THIS GRADE
HOLDING STEADY FROM SEVENTH IF
I DRAW AN IMAGINARY LINE LOOK
LET'S JUST SAY THROUGH THE
BASEMENT WINDOW SO THAT IT
COVERED THIS UP IF THIS WERE AN
ADDITION JUST OF THE ORANGE
ORANGERY BUT NOT THE AIDOO
UNDERNEATH IT, IT WOULDN'T
OVERPOWER THE HOUSE.
IS THAT RIGHT?
IT'S THE FACT IT'S THE FACT
THAT THE BECAUSE THE GROUND HAS
DROPPED AND THE SPACE WHERE THE
FOOTING IN THE WALLS THAT WOULD
SUPPORT THIS AT AT THE GRADE
OF THE OF THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THE HOUSE IS ALSO BEING
USED.
IT'S ABLE TO BE USED BECAUSE
OF THE GRADE DROP.
IT MAKES IT FEEL BIGGER BACK
THERE TO NOTICE THAT YOU HAVE
TO BE THE RESIDENT OR A
TRESPASSER THERE ISN'T ISN'T AN
IMPACT FROM SOMEONE WALKING
FROM THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
.
BUT TO ME IT ALMOST FEELS LIKE
WHAT'S WHAT'S MAKING STICK OUT
OR VISUALLY SEEM LARGE IS IS
PRECISELY THIS GRADE DROP
BECAUSE YOU'RE GETTING TO
EXPOSE THOSE THOSE WALLS.
I MEAN I SUPPOSE YOU COULD SINK
THE WHOLE THING DOWN AND HAVE
IT BE ONE STORY IN AT BASEMENT
LEVEL.
BUT IF YOU TRY TO KEEP IT FOR A
FOUR FOR EASE OF ACCESS, YOU
KNOW, KEEPING IT ON THE FIRST
FLOOR TO ME IT'S NOT THE
VOLUME.
I MEAN I THINK YOU'RE YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT IT.
IT'S NOT THAT IT'S THE THE FOOT
PRINT THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
OF THE EDITION IS NOT SUPPOSED
TO BE ACCORDING TO THE
STANDARDS MORE THAN 50 PERCENT
THAT'S THAT'S VOLUME RIGHT
THERE.
OH SURE.
YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S THE VOLUME OF TWO
FLOORS OF THAT THAT'S MAKING IT
THAT'S FLOOR AND THAT WOULD
ONLY IF THERE WAS A SECOND
FLOOR THEN THAT WOULD BE AN
ISSUE.
BUT THERE'S NOT A SECOND FLOOR
WHICH YOU KNOW IS HELPING THIS
PROJECT FOR SURE.
BUT OK, I GUESS I TAKE YOUR
COMMENT ABOUT THE THE BASEMENT
.
ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD?
I MEAN I DEFINITELY APPRECIATE
YOUR COMMENT ABOUT THE
OVERPOWERING OF DESIGN.
I DEFINITELY SHARE A LOT
OF YOUR SENTIMENTS TOO ABOUT
WANTING TO HAVE THESE AMAZING
DESIGNS WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY
BUT ALSO BALANCE BALANCING
ACTIVE DOESN'T FIT THE
GUIDELINES.
YEAH, I I DEFINITELY DO.
A STEP BACK AND LOT MORE ABOUT
YOUR COMMENT WALKING DOWN THE
STREET AND SEEING THIS BUILDING
AND BEING SO AWED BY BEHIND
YOU'RE NOT REALLY FOCUS ON
WHAT'S IN FRONT OF YOU THE
HISTORIC PART OF THE BUILDING
BUT YEAH IT'S MORE STATEMENT
THAN A YEAH BUT ON A
SUBORDINATE SHIRTS SURE SHARES
I MEAN WHICH IS YOU KNOW
DEFINITELY APPRECIATED.
I MEAN THAT'S A COMPLIMENT TO
THE ARCHITECT.
YEAH FOR SURE YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S OF I THINK THE
DESIGN IS REALLY COOL BUT YEAH
RIGHT.
>> WE'RE NOT VOTING ON A DESIGN
IT'S NOT A DESIGN BOARD IT'S
DOES IT MATCH DOES IT FOLLOW
THE STANDARDS AND THAT'S THAT'S
THAT'S OUR ROLE HERE SO YEAH OK
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO A VOTE
UNLESS THERE'S ANOTHER COMMENT
OK LET'S VOTE ON THIS ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR NO YOU CAN MAKE A
COMMENT.
SURE.
YEAH VERY QUICK THOUGH PLEASE.
JUST A QUICK TO MR. KAPLAN'S
COMMENTS THE WAY FOR THE
ELEVATION THE WAY IT'S TUCKED
IN WHAT YOU DON'T SEE THERE IS
THE GARAGE THAT COMES UP TO
ABOUT HALFWAY OF THE EDITION
THERE THOUGH WITH THE FRONT THE
HOUSE SETTING UP SO HIGH FROM
THE STREET OR SOLAR PANELS YOU
REALLY DON'T SEE IT.
SO WE TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION.
OTHER ALTERNATIVES LIKE AN EDU
AND THE BAG BECAUSE THE LOT
DROPS OFF WOULD HAD THIS HUGE
TOWER RIGHT TO GET THE TWO
STOREYS WHICH REALLY WOULD LOOK
OUT OF PLACE.
BUT WE HAVE A LABORATORY, WE
HAVE THE 30 FOOT SET BAG SO WE
HAVE CONSTRAINTS THERE AS WILL
ANOTHER SIDE.
THERE'S A REALLY HUGE BARN AND
THE HOUSE THAT SITS BESIDE IT
TOO.
IT'S GOING UPHILL SO IT'S
HIGHER TO REALLY UNLESS YOU'RE
LOOKING LIKE SIT DOWN IN THE
DRIVEWAY EVEN FOR MADISON YOU
REALLY DON'T SEE IT BECAUSE WE
KEPT IT AT ONE LEVEL AND FOR
THE YOU AGAIN THE SIZE WE DID
SHRINK IT TO YOU IT IS MINIMAL
TO BE LIVABLE.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, LIKE THE
BEDROOM ISN'T EVEN LIKE A BIG
FOR A QUEEN SIZE BED LIKE THAT
THE BEDROOM IS SO SMALL NOW YOU
CAN ONLY FEEL LIKE A TWIN BED
IN THERE.
SO FOR TWO PEOPLE TO TRY TO AGE
IN PLACE VERY TINY KITCHENETTE
SO WE NEED THAT BATHROOM UNDER
THE HOUSE TO EVEN GET TO THAT
LEVEL TO REALLY LIKE ANY
SMALLER THAN EVEN THAT
FOOTPRINT AT THE SIXTY ONE IS
YOU KNOW, CANNOT LIVE NO MATTER
WHAT THE DESIGN IS.
RIGHT.
SO WE DID TRY TO HELP THAT I
THINK APPRECIATE THOSE
COMMENTS.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
THAT WAS HELPFUL BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF IT WAS ANY NEW
INFORMATION BUT IS THERE ANY
ANY REACTION TO THAT NOW?
OK, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO NO.
>> THE MOTION DOES NOT CARRY
YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
DENIED.
SO I THINK THE NEXT STEP WOULD
BE TO CONTACT THE CITY AND AND
WORK WITH WITH THE CITY ON A
NEW APPLICATION.
SORRY.
OK, OK SO LET'S REMEMBER TO A
JUST
ARE READING HERE AND WE'LL
START HERE AT ONE AND THAT'S
ACTUALLY BEEN A GHOST TOWN SO
WE'LL HAVE A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
PROCESS FOR THAT.
IS IT TWENTY MURRAY STREET IS
THAT MORE AND SINCE A BIT
CLOSER TO HOME WE WON'T
ACTUALLY HAVE TO HERE IT GOES.
WE DO HAVE TO HOLD A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR IT WAS ANNOUNCED SO
I'LL OPEN A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THAT.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM.
WE HAVE NO ON OUR MIND SO WE
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND MOVE ON FROM THAT ONE AND
THE NEXT ONE IS UP TO SEVEN OR
SIX WEST LIBERTY STREET ORIANNA
OF AN AREA RIGHT.
I DIDN'T HAVE MY MICROPHONE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE HERE AT SEVEN OH SIX
WEST LIBERTY.
IT'S AN EIGHTEEN SIXTY SEVEN
JOHN CHRISTIAN BURCKHARDT HOUSE
THAT HAS A VERY SYMMETRICAL
FRONT FACADE WITH A CENTER
ENTRY AND VERTICALLY ALIGNED
FOR OVER FOUR WINDOWS.
THE PORCH IS A REPRODUCTION
FROM THE NINETEEN EIGHTIES WHEN
THE MISSING PORCH WAS DESIGNED
IN PART BASED BASED ON GHOSTING
FOUND UNDER THE ARTIFICIAL
SIDING HOUSE HAS A HIP ROOF AND
DENTALS AND DECORATIVE WALL
TRIM BENEATH THE EAVES SANDBORN
FIRE INSURANCE MAPS SHOW THAT A
ONE STOREY ADDITION WAS
CONSTRUCTED AT THE REAR OF THE
TWO STORY HOUSE DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE IN
NINETEEN NINETY FOUR A NEW TWO
STOREY REAR EDITION WAS BUILT
THAT ENVELOPED THE MAJORITY
OF THE EARLIER ONE STOREY
EDITION SO THAT MY MAKE A
LITTLE BIT MORE SENSE ONCE WE
LOOK AT THE PHOTOS AND THE
PLANS THE SITE IS LOCATED ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF WEST LIBERTY,
WEST OF FIFTH STREET AND EAST
OF HOLLAND AND THE APPLICANT
SEEKS APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE
POST NINETEEN FORTY FIVE TWO
STORY EDITION AT THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE AND CONSTRUCT A
NEW TWO STOREY REAR EDITION
PLUS A ONE STORY REAR EDITION
AND A REAR DECK.
RIGHT THIS IS THE VERY
SYMMETRICAL FRONT FACADE OF THE
HOUSE HERE WE HAVE THE VIEW
FROM LIBERTY STREET.
YOU CAN SEE THE EXISTING TWO
STOREY ADDITIONS BACK HERE
AGAIN THAT'S POST NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE AND THIS IS THE
PROPOSAL SO A NEW TWO STORY
ADDITION AND THEN A ONE STORY
AREA AND A PORCH BEHIND IT SO
YOU CAN SEE HERE ON THE PLAN
AND SO THIS IS THE EXISTING
THIS IS THE ROOF OF THE
HISTORIC HOUSE THIS IS THE ROOF
OF THE CURRENT TWO STOREY
ADDITIONS IN NINETEEN NINETY
FOUR AND THEN THIS IS THE
PROPOSED SO AGAIN IN THAT SAME
SPACE AND THEN PLUS A LITTLE
BIT EXTRA ON THE BACK HERE ARE
SOME PLAN SO LOWER LEVEL
EXISTING ON THE RIGHT AND THEN
PROPOSED ON THE LT YOU CAN
SEE THAT EXPANSION INTO THE
REAR COME HERE YOU CAN SEE
GREEN FIRST FLOOR PROPOSED AND
IT IS INSET ON BOTH CORNERS SO
YOU CAN SEE THE EXISTING THE
NINETEEN NINETY FOUR TWO STOREY
ADDITIONS DID NOT INSET ON THIS
EAST CORNER SO THE NEW PROPOSED
ADDITIONS WILL RESTORE THAT
NORTHEAST BACK CORNER AND THEN
AND IT'LL KEEP THAT SAME KIND
OF AREA THAT WAS ON THE
NORTHWEST CORNER SO YOU CAN
KIND OF SEE THIS AREA HERE IS
ABOUT WHERE THAT PRE NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE ADDITION REAR
EDITION WAS AND THEN AGAIN WITH
THE NINETEEN NINETY FOUR IT
KIND OF JUST ENCOMPASSED
EVERYTHING THAT WAS BACK THERE.
SO THIS IS INCLUDED SINCE IT'S
SHOWN ON THE SANDBORN MAPS IN
THE PRE NINETEEN FORTY FIVE
FLOOR AREA JUST ABOUT THIS AREA
HERE AND HERE IS THE UPPER
LEVEL SO THAT'S THAT TWO STOREY
BACK ADDITION JUST ABOUT THE
SAME FOOTPRINT AS THE EXISTING
REAR EDITION BUT THEN AGAIN ON
THE FIRST FLOOR IT EXTENDS A
LITTLE BIT FARTHER BACK HERE
YOU CAN HAVE SOME WE SEE SOME
ELEVATIONS NOTHING CHANGING ON
THE FRONT.
HERE'S THE BACK.
YOU CAN SEE THAT INSET.
YOU CAN SEE THE CURRENT TWO
STOREY ADDITIONS.
SO IT REALLY JUST FILLS THE
SAME KIND OF SPACE AND THEN
ADDS THIS ONE STORY AND THEN
THIS DECK BACK HERE HERE'S SOME
SIDE ELEVATION SO YOU CAN SEE
THAT IT DOES EXTEND FURTHER
BACK INTO THE REAR YARD AND
SOME RENDERINGS.
HERE'S THE EXISTING ADDITION
BACK THERE.
IT'S MORE RENDERINGS YOU CAN
SEE FROM THE SIDE FROM THE
DRIVEWAY AND THEN THIS IS THE
EXISTING THERE IS A DECK BACK
HERE.
SO THERE'S HERE'S THIS NEW
DECK.
HERE'S THAT ONE STORY AND HERE
IS THE TWO STORY THAT IS
ESSENTIALLY IN THE SAME PART,
THE SAME PLACE JUST FROM THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE SOME MATERIAL
DETAILS THAT WE'LL GET INTO
WHEN I READ SOME MORE COMMENTS
THEN YOU CAN KIND OF SEE HERE
THIS IS THAT EARLIER REAR ONE
STORY ADDITION THAT THAT WAS
THERE BEFORE
THE NINETEEN FORTY
FOUR THAT WE SEE TODAY.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE ARE SOME PHOTOS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
SO FRONT OF THE HOUSE THIS IS
FROM ACROSS LIBERTY STREET.
HERE'S THE SIDE.
SO HERE'S THAT SPACE AND IT'LL
TAKE UP GO BACK INTO THE REAR
EXISTING BACK OF THE HOUSE WITH
THAT DECK AND THEN FROM THE
DRIVEWAY AND THIS IS WHERE IT'S
INSET.
AND SO THEY DID THEY'RE
CURRENTLY YOU CAN SEE THAT
HISTORIC CORNER OF THE HOUSE
AND THEY'RE GOING TO RESTORE
THE HISTORIC CORNER, THE
OPPOSITE SIDE AND THAT DRIVEWAY
WHERE THINGS ARE GOING TO BE
ALL RIGHT.
>> I ALREADY READ THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS TO
FIVE, NINE AND TEN SO I'LL
LEAVE THOSE FOR FOR THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO
THE BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY AND COMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS COLOR AND TEXTURE IS
RECOMMENDED CONSTRUCT NEW
ADDITIONS SO THAT THERE IS THE
LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS OF HISTORIC
MATERIALS AND SO THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE NOT
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
.
I ALSO RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS ON REAR OR
AN INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN ADDITIONS
IN A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR
WHAT IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS
NEW RECOMMENDED TO PLACE
ADDITIONS SUCH AS BALCONIES AND
GREENHOUSES AND ON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS AND WHEN
DESIGNING ADDITIONAL STORIES
THEY ARE SET BACK FROM THE WALL
PLAIN AND AS INCONSPICUOUS AS
POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM THE
STREET NOT RECOMMENDED TO
ATTACH ADDITIONS TO THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE HOUSE ARE DESTROYED
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING AND
NOT RECOMMENDED DESIGN AN
ADDITION THAT IS OUT OF SCALE
AND SIZE AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING NOT
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCT NEW ADDITIONS THAT
RESULT IN THE LOSS OF HISTORIC
CHARACTER OR CONSTRUCTING
ADDITIONAL STORIES OF THE
HISTORIC APPEARANCE OF THE
BUILDING IS RADICALLY CHANGED
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO LOCATE
ADDITIONS ON THE LIST CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATION IN AN
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION AND TO
LIMIT THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATION TO THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
ADDITIONS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF MACING MATERIALS
RELATIONSHIPS OF SOLIDS DEBOIS
AND PROPORTIONS OF OPENING'S
AND TO LIMIT THE SIZE AND SCALE
OF THE ADDITION AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING NOT APPROPRIATE TO
DESIGN NEW ADDITION THAT
REQUIRES THE REMOVAL
OF SIGNIFICANT BUILDING
ELEMENTS OR SITE FEATURES OR TO
DESIGN IN ADDITION TO APPEAR
OLDER OR THE SAME AGE AS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING NOT
APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN.
IN ADDITION THAT OVERPOWERS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING OR TO
CONSTRUCT IN ADDITION THAT
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGES A
PROPORTION OF BUILT MASS TO
OPEN SPACE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
SITE FOR HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES.
IT IS AGAIN APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE NEW WALLS IN A DIFFERENT
PLAN FROM THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE.
CORRECT?
THAT IS ALL THAT AND THEN I
JUST HAVE A FEW MORE COMMENTS
SO GO BACK TO THE NICE PHOTOS
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT THAT
EXISTING IN NINETEEN NINETY
FOUR REAR EDITION THAT INCLUDES
THE PRE NINETEEN FORTY FIVE ONE
STORY ADDITION THERE ARE THE
TWO PARTS HERE SO THAT TWO
STORY THE ONE STORY AND THEN A
DUCK BEHIND IT THE TWO STORY
ADDITION IS INSET ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE HISTORIC HOUSE.
THE TWO STORY PORTION HAS A
HIPPED ROOF THAT TIES INTO THE
EXISTING HISTORIC ROOF HEIGHT
IS SPECIFIED ON THE DRAWINGS
BUT THE RIDGE DOES APPEAR TO BE
LOWER THAN THE ORIGINAL
ROOFLINE.
THAT ONE STORY PORTION WILL
ALSO HAVE A GROUP THAT WILL
INTEGRATE INTO THE TWO STORY
PORTION.
REMOVING MATERIAL ISN'T
INDICATED ON THE SUBMITTED
DRAWINGS BUT THE USE OF THE
HEAD IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC HOUSE.
THE ADDITIONS CLAD IN SMOOTH
FIBERS CITING THE EXPOSURE
SHOWN TO BE FIVE INCHES ON THE
DRAWINGS.
THE SUBMITTED PLANS ALSO SHOW
THAT THE TRIM WILL BE EXACT
THROUGHOUT AND THE SECOND STORY
FREEZE AND DENTAL MOLDING WILL
REPLICATE THE DETAILING ON THE
HISTORIC HOUSE AND STAFF HAS
RECOMMENDED THAT THIS DESIGN
CHANGE BE CHANGED TO BE
COMPATIBLE WITH BUT NOT EXACTLY
MATCH THE HISTORIC FREEZE
MOLDING PROPOSED WINDOWS WILL
BE CLAD WOOD WITH SIMULATED
DIVIDED LIGHTS IN SPACERS THERE
IS A MIX OF CASEMENT'S AND
DOUBLE HUNG'S WINDOW TRIM ON
THE ADDITIONS WILL TRIM AND THE
DRAWINGS ARE THE DRAWING SHOW
THAT THE WINDOWS WILL BE
DIFFERENT SIZES THAN THE
HISTORIC WINDOWS TO
DIFFERENTIATE THERE WILL BE TWO
REAR DOOR OPENINGS ON THE
ADDITIONS ONE THAT LEADS FROM
THAT ONE STORY PART TO THE NEW
DECK AND THEN THE OTHER THAT
LEADS FROM THE TWO STOREY PORCH
INTO THE BACK YARD WHICH IS
RECESSED IN AN ENTRANCE AND
ENTRANCE VESTIBULE DOORS WILL
BE WOOD EITHER HALF OR THREE
QUARTERS LIGHT PER THE
SUBMITTED DRAWINGS SET THE
HISTORIC FOOTPRINT OF THE HOUSE
IS NINE HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO
SQUARE FEET INCLUDING THAT TWO
HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION THAT WAS CONSTRUCTED
DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO THE NEW FOOTPRINT WILL BE
THE THIRTEEN FIFTY NINE SQUARE
FEET WHICH IS A FORTY FIVE
PERCENT INCREASE AND THE
PROPOSED FLOOR AREA INCREASE
WILL BE EXACTLY FIFTY PERCENT.
JUST A FEW NOTES ABOUT THE REAR
DECK THERE WILL BE COMPOSITE
STACKING AND WOOD RAILINGS AND
BANISTERS THERE JACK WILL BE
THREE HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN
SQUARE FEET THE HEIGHT OF THE
PORCH THE RAILINGS IS NOT
SPECIFIED ON DRAWINGS BUT LOOKS
FINE.
THERE'S ALSO SOME MECHANICAL
UNITS THAT ARE INCLUDED AS PART
OF THIS APPLICATION THAT'S
GENERALLY A STAFF APPROVAL BUT
THEY'RE INCLUDED HERE BECAUSE
WHY NOT?
AND THE APPROPRIATE LOCATION IS
APPROPRIATE.
SO TO SUMMARIZE THE DESIGN IN
GENERAL, THE DESIGN FOR THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
HOUSE.
THERE WILL BE MINIMAL IMPACT ON
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE BECAUSE
THE TWO STOREY ADDITIONS WILL
FILL THAT SPACE OF THE NINETEEN
NINETY FOUR ADDITIONS THAT'S
THERE THE REAR OF THE HOUSE IS
AN APPROPRIATE LOCATION.
THE ADDITIONS WILL BE INSET AND
THE PEAK OF THE NEW ROOF WILL
BE LOWER THAN THE HISTORIC
BRIDGE.
THE LIGHT IS WIDE.
PARTS OF THE PROPOSED WORK WILL
LIKELY BE VISIBLE FROM THE
RIGHT OF WAY BECAUSE THAT
MACING AS WELL BUT BY INSETTING
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS PROJECT
WILL ALSO RESTORE THAT
NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MARIJANA.
OK NOW WE'LL GET THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT PLEASE.
YOUR YEAH THIS IS MY FAVORITE
LOTS ONE OF THOSE CLASSIC AND
EVERYONE'S REALLY DON'T REALIZE
HOW LARGE IT IS UNTIL YOU GO
BACK THERE AND JUST KEEPS ON
GOING.
THERE'S A SLIGHT THERE'S A
LARGE CHANGE GREATER THAN THE
END OF THE PROPERTY BUT VERY,
VERY LITTLE FROM THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE TO THE BACK TO THE
BACK OF THE PROPOSED.
IT'S DEFINITELY WELL HIDDEN.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT THEY ARE
BRINGING BACK THE INDENTATION
FROM THE ORIGINAL MASS.
I REALLY DON'T HAVE TOO MUCH TO
ADD.
I FOUND A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT COVERS IT.
THERE WASN'T THERE WASN'T MUCH
CONTROVERSIAL HERE.
OK, THANKS.
OK SO NOW WE'LL HAVE THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION WITH THE
APPLICANT PLEASE STEP FORWARD
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR
THE RECORD YOU'VE GOT FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK.
YOU CAN RESPOND TO WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD SO FAR.
JUST GIVE YOUR OWN PRESENTATION
.
MY NAME IS JIMMY BEVILAQUA.
I WORKED WITH ROCK THE DESIGN
BUILD ON THIS AND HELPING
DESIGN THE HOMEOWNERS DESIGN
THE PROJECT.
>> THAT'S A REALLY I MEAN WE WE
WORKED WITH JILL IN THE CITY TO
COME UP WITH WHAT WE FELT WAS
APPROPRIATE AND HAVING THEM SAY
THERE'S THERE'S THINGS THAT
AREN'T CONTROVERSIAL.
IT'S IT'S ACTUALLY COMFORTING
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE KNOW THAT
IT'S A PRETTY BIG ADDITION BUT
IT'S A REALLY BIG LOT AND WE
STAYED WITHIN THE GUIDELINES.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE WERE
FOR A DESIGN PERSPECTIVE AND
COMPATIBILITY IF YOU NOTICED
THE ORIGINAL HOUSE, THE
FENESTRATION PATTERN WHERE THE
FIRST FLOOR WINDOWS LINE UP
WITH THE SECOND FLOOR WINDOWS
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
WORKED TO TRY AND BRING BACK AT
LEAST ON THE SIDES WHERE WHERE
THE FULL SIDE COMES DOWN AND IT
REALLY I MEAN THIS THIS WAS
ABOUT MAKING THE SPACE MORE
USABLE AND PART OF IT IS ALSO
THE ORIGINAL SECOND FLOOR
ADDITION THAT WAS PUT ON DID
NOT MATCH THE FLOOR HEIGHT
UPSTAIRS SO THAT THERE'S NO
BEDROOM OR CHILD SIZE BEDROOM.
THERE'S A TWO STAIR DROP IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE BEDROOM AND SO BY
BY DOING ANY KIND OF ADDITION
AND IF YOU NOTICE THE SECOND
THE SECOND FLOOR IS ALMOST
WHERE THE PREVIOUS EDITION WAS
DONE.
SO WE'RE NOT REALLY ADDING TOO
MUCH TO TO THE MACING UPSTAIRS
BUT WHAT WE ARE DOING IS WE'RE
MAKING IT ONE FLOOR LEVEL WHICH
WHETHER IT'S AGING IN PLACE OR
IT'S JUST SAFETY ISSUES WHERE
YOU DON'T HAVE TO STAIRS IN A
BEDROOM WHERE KIDS CAN KIND
OF GET UP AND NOT TRIP OVER
TIME.
SO WE JUST WORKED REALLY HARD I
THINK TRYING TO COME UP WITH
SOMETHING THAT WE FELT WAS
RESPECTFUL FOR THE SITE BUT
ALSO FOR WHAT I THINK IS A
GREAT HOUSE AND PRETTY
PROMINENT HOUSE ON LIBERTY
STREET.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WE MIGHT HAVE SOME QUESTIONS
FOR YOU.
THE STAFF REPORT MENTIONED
SOMETHING ABOUT THE DENTALS
MIMICKING THE EXACT DESIGN ON
THE HISTORIC HOUSE.
SO WHAT ARE YOU PROPOSING?
ANYTHING SO SO KIND OF OUR
ORIGINAL PROPOSAL WAS TO CALL
OUT THAT WE WERE CHANGING
MATERIAL AND THAT WE WOULD USE
THE TAMIL PRODUCT WHERE WE
COULD MILL THE DENTAL MOLDING
TO TO
MATCH JUST BECAUSE IT'S A
NICE DESIGN FEATURE IF IT IS
KIND OF A STICKING POINT, WE
CERTAINLY CAN CHANGE THE THE
WIDTH OF THE DENTAL TO SAY
THAT, YOU KNOW, IT WOULD BE
FIFTY PERCENT LARGER AND THAT
WOULD DIFFERENTIATE IT BUT
KEEPING THE HEIGHT OF OF COURSE
AS WE GO AROUND BUT THAT WOULD
BE SOMETHING THAT WE CERTAINLY
CONSIDER.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I THINK
WE'RE GOING TO GET ANY FOR.
SO IF IT'S RECOMMENDED VERY
GOOD.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FOR JIMMY?
OH OK.
UM LOOKS LIKE THE JIMMY IS
GOING TO GO AWAY LOOKS YES
THERE'S A THERE'S A CHIMNEY
RIGHT NOW THAT JUST VENTS A
WATER HEATER THAT WILL NO
LONGER VENT THE WATER HEATER.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I TALKED TO
JILL ABOUT BEFORE EVEN MAKING
THAT PROPOSAL ORIGINALLY WE
HAVE DESIGN AND WE WERE GOING
TO TRY AND KEEP IT AND GET RID
OF THE SPACE INSIDE BECAUSE
RIGHT NOW IT JUST BUMPS INTO
THE INTERIOR BUT THERE'S A
FIREPLACE OR ANYTHING.
IT'S JUST KIND OF BUMPING INTO
TWO ROOMS SO WE WOULD HAVE TO
SUPPORT IT.
BUT BECAUSE IT DOESN'T BREAK
THE PLAIN OF THE WALL AND IT
JUST COMES UP THE ROOF AND IT
WASN'T IN JILL'S WORDS IT
WASN'T IT DIDN'T HAVE ANY KIND
OF SIGNIFICANT DETAILING.
SO THEN WE CHOSE TO REMOVE IT
AND ACTUALLY IF YOU SEE THE
FOAM OF ONE OF THE OTHER
CUPHOLDER ADDITIONS ALSO TOOK
OUT AN INTERIOR CHIMNEY AS WELL
.
VERY GOOD QUESTION.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THE
DIFFERENTIATION OTHER THAN THE
DENTALS DECIDING I'M GOING TO
MATCH SO WE WERE GOING TO
CHANGE MATERIAL.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO.
SO IT'S GOING TO GO INTO A
COMPOSITE MATERIAL OF JUST THE
ADDITIONS.
THE ADDITIONS WILL BE A
COMPOSITE FIBER CEMENT SIDING
AND AN EXACT TRIM PACKAGE.
VERY GOOD.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
OK, WE MIGHT BRING YOU BACK UP
IN A SEC BUT FOR NOW THANK YOU.
WE'LL DO THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
SEVEN OR SIX WEST LIBERTY
STREET, OK?
>> NO ONE COMING UP TO THE
PODIUM.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY ONE ON LINE
SO NO ONE FOR PUBLIC HEARING
TODAY FOR THIS ITEM AND SO WE
WILL CLOSE IT AND I WOULD ASK
IF THERE'S A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS SITE.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS OF THE
APPLICATION IN SEVEN OR SIX
WEST LIBERTY STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
DEMOLISH THE EXISTING TWO
STOREY RARE ADDITION AND DECK
CONSTRUCT A NEW TWO STOREY
EDITION PLUS A ONE STORY ROOM
ADDITION AND A REAR DECK AND
INSTALL MECHANICAL UNITS AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE AND ADDITIONS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES IN
PARTICULAR THE GUIDELINES FOR
ALL ADDITIONS AND ADDITIONS TO
HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
HAVE A SECOND SECOND GOOD THAT
WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
SO NOW WE'LL HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION I I
FEEL LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF INFORMATION IN THIS PACKET.
THE DRAWINGS THERE'S A LOT
OF DRAWINGS AS WELL.
IT'S VERY CLEAR ABOUT WHAT THE
APPLICATION IS PROPOSING.
I THINK THAT THE MAIN QUESTION
I HAD WHEN I SAW THIS AFTER
NOTING THAT THE THE SIZE WAS
APPROPRIATE WAS IT'S VERY
COMPATIBLE, EXTREMELY
COMPATIBLE.
IT LOOKS AND THE RENDERINGS IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S ONE HOUSE.
RIGHT.
OK, SO YOU HAVE TO YOU KNOW THE
RENDERINGS YOU'RE NOT GETTING
THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CEDAR
AND HARDY.
RIGHT.
SO BUT IT REALLY IS COMPATABLE
.
SO THAT'S GREAT BECAUSE THE
STANDARDS SAY THAT IT SHOULD BE
COMPATIBLE AND THEN ALSO
OBVIOUSLY THE STANDARDS IS IT
IT NEEDS TO BE DIFFERENTIATED.
SO THAT WAS JUST THE QUESTION
THAT CAME TO MIND.
IS IT DIFFERENTIATED ENOUGH TO
TO FOLLOW THE STANDARDS?
AND WHAT I SEE IS THAT THE THE
WINDOWS ARE LIKE PARTICULARLY
THE SIDE ELEVATION.
I THINK THAT IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING TO LOOK AT LIKE
THE THE WINDOW SIZES AND AT
LEAST THE FIRST TWO ARE OK SO
THE SIZES ARE DIFFERENT SIMILAR
BUT DIFFERENT AND THEY'RE
CASEMENT'S INSTEAD OF DOUBLE
THERE'S ALSO DOUBLE HUNG BUT
IT'S A MIX I GUESS THE YEAH
LIKE SO YOU KNOW AND SO IS
MATCHING THE SOME OF THE I
GUESS THERE'S FOUR OVER FOURS
AND THEN THERE ARE SOME FORWARD
FOURS BUT IT'S GOING TO BE
SIMULATED DIVIDED.
>> RIGHT SO I SUPPOSE IF YOU IF
YOU GO TAKE A LOOK IT'S JUST
RIGHT ON THE EDGE AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY THE GENTLE DETAIL IS
IS LIKE DECIDING IT'S MATCHING
BUT WITH A DIFFERENT MATERIAL
WHICH I FEEL AND THE TRIM IS
THE SAME WAY.
SO I THINK IT'S TEETERING RIGHT
ON THE EDGE OF DIFFERENTIATION
BUT WE HAVE ALLOWED THE
MATERIAL TO BE THE
DIFFERENTIATOR.
SO I FEEL LIKE IT'S IT'S
TEETERING ON THE EDGE THERE.
BUT IT IS IT IS KIND OF MAKING
IT BECAUSE IT'S USING DIFFERENT
MATERIALS BUT YOU KNOW, IT IS
ON THE EDGE SO WHAT DO YOU
THINK WE NEED TO YOU KNOW, AS
PROPOSED IS WITH MATCHING TRIM
THE TWIN TRIM.
SO I THINK WE NEED TO TO AMEND
THE MOTION SO THAT INDICATES
THAT MATCHING TWIN TRIM WOULD
NOT BE BUT IS IN A MATCHING
TRIM WITH ARZAK INSTEAD OF WOOD
WITH PVC INSTEAD OF TWO AND A
HALF FROM THE STREET LEVEL.
RIGHT.
YEAH, YOU WON'T NOTICE FROM THE
STREET AT ALL YOU CAN'T REALLY
SEE AHADY WALL STREET IS
DIFFERENTIATED FROM FOR
HUMANIZED RIGHT.
>> BUT IS THAT WAS THAT WHAT ER
BUT THAT TREND IS GOING TO IT'S
GOING TO LOOK IT'S GOING TO
LOOK EXACTLY THE SAME.
OK NOTED ANY COMMENTS ON THAT
IF IF IF WE'RE ALREADY
DIFFERENTIATING BY INDENTING
THE BUILDING DO WE DO WE STILL
NEED TO ALSO DIFFERENTIATE WITH
THE SIZE OF THE OF THE TRIM.
WELL IT'S ONE WHOLE PACKAGE
BASICALLY BUT THERE'S A LOT
OF EXISTING HISTORIC HOMES THAT
HAVE A HISTORIC EDITION OR EVEN
JUST A HISTORIC BACK PART
OF THE HOUSE THAT'S INDENTED.
SO THAT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
MEAN THEY'RE MODERN ADDITIONS.
YOU KNOW, I MEAN IT'S ALMOST
LIKE HE DONE SUCH A GOOD JOB
MAKING EDIBLE TOO GOOD.
YOU CAN'T TELL COULD THEY DO A
DIFFERENT EXPOSURE UNSIGHTED?
WELL, THEY COULD DO WHATEVER
THEY WANT OF COURSE.
IT'S JUST WE'VE APPROVED
PROJECTS THAT ARE MATCHING
CITING EXPOSURE.
BUT IF THE HISTORIC HOUSE
OF CEDAR AND THIS IS GOING TO
BECAUSE LIKE THE CEDAR HAS A
GOOD YOU KNOW, YOU CAN SEE LIKE
THE SHADOWLINE IN THE CEDAR AND
THE THE HARDY HAS THE GLASS.
YEAH.
SO THE TRAINED EYE CAN SEE THE
DIFFERENCE.
I DON'T THINK THE TRAINED I CAN
NECESSARILY SEE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN EXACT YOU KNOW TWO
STORIES UP BUT YEAH I THINK AT
THAT POINT YOU JUST KNOW IT'S
IN ADDITION BECAUSE THE WINDOWS
LIKE I SAID IT'S IT'S ALL THE
OTHER THINGS LIKE THE WINDOW
LIKE TRIM WILL BE FLATTER.
I MEAN YOU KNOW I GUESS IF I
WAS LOOKING IN AN ARCHITECTURAL
HISTORIAN I COULD TELL THAT I
THINK THAT IS THE LEVEL
OF STANDARD THAT WE ASK.
RIGHT.
IF I WAS DOING LOOKING AT THIS
HOUSE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT'S GOING ON, I WOULD BE
ABLE TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN COURTENAY'S AND TRIM
AND ACTUALLY FIGURE YEAH, NOT
IS GOING STORIES.
WELL YOU DON'T SEEM TO BE
WORRIED ABOUT THOSE SYNTHETIC
MARIJUANA.
CAN YOU CAN YOU JUST COMMENT ON
THAT STANDARD?
WE'RE LIKE ON THE STANDARD
OF DIFFERENTIATION.
WHY DO YOU FEEL IT'S FOR ANY
OLD SOMEBODY WALKING BY ON THE
STREET ON THE SIDEWALK OR IS IT
FOR LIKE AN EXPERT LIKE
COMMISSIONER ROSS LOOKING AT
IT?
DO YOU DO YOU HAVE A FEELING
FOR IT OR IS IT JUST HOW WE
INTERPRET IT?
>> I THINK IN IT GENERALLY IT'S
IT'S FOR THE TRAINED DIET IS
WHAT WE SAY.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
AND I GUESS TO YOU I MEAN
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE ORIGINAL
PORTION OF THE HOUSE AND THE
MANNER IN WHICH THE WINDOWS AT
SECOND STORY KIND OF PROJECT
INTO WHAT'S THE KIND OF FREEZE
OR AREA I MEAN VERSUS THE
EDITION WHICH WILL NOT HAVE
THAT THAT FEATURE.
I FEEL LIKE I WOULD BE YEAH.
>> YEAH.
IS THE FOUNDATION IS THERE ANY
DIFFERENCE IN FOUNDATION
MATERIAL BETWEEN A HISTORIC AND
EDITION?
THAT MAY BE A QUESTION FOR THE
ARCHITECT HERE.
CAN YOU PLEASE APPROACH THE
PODIUM FOUNDATION MATERIAL THE
NEW AND THE HISTORIC WHAT DO WE
GOT.
>> YEAH SO FOR FOR PARTS OF THE
HISTORIC THERE'S A STONE
FOUNDATION AND THEN THERE'S A
PORTION OF IT THAT'S THAT'S CMU
BUT THAT'S THE PORTION THAT WE
WOULD BE TAKING OUT.
YEAH.
AND THEN IN TERMS OF WE WOULD
PUT A STUCCO TO TO THE EXTERIOR
THE ADDITIONS HAVE A LARGE
COAT IT WAS A GLASS APART FROM
THERE THERE'S A PART ON SOME
OF THE HISTORIC AS WELL.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE A CLEAN IT'S
NOT A DIVIDING LINE NECESSARILY
IN THIS INSTANCE.
OK, NO BUT I MEAN
EVEN IN THE
BASEBOARD TRIM LIKE THE AT THE
RIM JOIST, YOU KNOW, AND WE'RE
GOING TO USE A WATER TABLE
THAT'S GOING TO YEAH EXACTLY.
SO LIKE THE WHOLE PACKAGE WILL
BE DIFFERENT BUT IT'S GOING TO
BE SUBTLE.
YES.
IS IT IS THE POINT NOTED.
THANK YOU FOR THAT EXTRA
INFORMATION JIMMY.
OK, SO LET'S SEE WE TALKED
ABOUT DIFFERENTIATED VERSUS NOT
ANY ISSUES WITH REMOVING THE
CHIMNEY.
>> DOES ANYONE WANT TO COMMENT
ON THAT?
WE DON'T LIKE TO SEE A CHIMNEY
GO BUT NO COMMENTS
THE SIZE
OF IT IS RIGHT AT THE EDGE BUT
MEETS THE STANDARDS.
ANY COMMENTS ON SIZE?
NO.
OK, IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S ASPHALT
SHINGLE ROOF BUT IT DIDN'T SAY
IT DOESN'T SAY SPECIFICALLY IT
LOOKS LIKE OK OK AND THEN THE
PORCH HAS WOOD WOOD RAILINGS
ARE THERE ANY OTHER ASPECTS
OF THIS ADDITION TO DISCUSS.
I THINK WE TALKED THROUGH IT
ALL.
OK, IF THERE'S NOTHING ELSE NO
OTHER COMMENTS I THINK THAT'S
BECAUSE WE'RE READY TO VOTE SO
LET'S DO THAT NOW ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
YOU MUST RECEIVE ALL REQUIRED
PERMITS FROM THE CITY BEFORE
BEGINNING YOUR PROJECT AND THE
WORK IN THE PERMITS MUST MATCH
WHAT WAS APPROVED IN THIS
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
TODAY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK, WE WILL NOW MOVE ON.
WE'VE GOT ONE MORE HEARING
TONIGHT.
IT'S F THREE.
IT'S ALSO ON LIBERTY STREET BUT
IT'S ON EAST LIBERTY AND IT'S
ONE TWENTY EAST LIBERTY STREET.
SO WE'LL GET THE STAFF REPORT
AND IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE READY
TO GO RIGHT NOW.
THANKS MAN.
YEAH, BEAR WITH ME.
WE'LL HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND ON THIS.
LET'S START BUILDING SO ONE
TWENTY EAST LIBERTY STREET, A
THREE STORY BRICK COMMERCIAL
VERNACULAR BUILDING THAT WAS
BUILT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX
AND IS COMMONLY KNOWN AS THE
PRETZEL BELL BUILDING IN
NINETEEN THIRTY FOR THE PRETZEL
BELL TAVERN AND RESTAURANT
MOVED IN AND BECAME AN ANN
ARBOR INSTITUTION FOR MORE THAN
FIFTY YEARS UNTIL NINETEEN
EIGHTY FIVE AND A NOTE THAT THE
CURRENT PRETZEL BELL RESTAURANT
ON SOUTH MAIN STREET BORROWED
THE NAME BUT HAS NO APPARENT
RELATION TO THE ORIGINAL TAVERN
.
ALSO THE AUTUMN THE MAGAZINE
AUTOMOBILE WAS LOCATED UPSTAIRS
FOR ITS LIFESPAN WHICH WAS
NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE TO TWENTY
TWENTY.
>> THE BUILDING FEATURES FIXED
PANE WINDOWS, STONE LINTELS AND
WINDOWSILLS IN A DECORATIVE
BRICK CORNICE WITH CABLING
SOMETIME BETWEEN NINETEEN
EIGHTY ONE IN NINETEEN NINETY
TWO.
IT APPEARS THAT THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THE NORTH FRONT ELEVATION
WAS MODIFIED WITH THE WINDOW
OPENINGS AT ONE TWENTY AND ONE
TWENTY TWO EAST LIBERTY
DECREASING IN SIZE IT LOOKS
LIKE THE CELLS WERE RAISED IN
THE OPENINGS WERE AND FILLED
WITH BRICK THREE WINDOWS WERE
ADDED AND A DOORWAY WAS
RELOCATED IN THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THE EAST SIDE ELEVATION
DURING THIS TIME PERIOD IN
TWENTY FOURTEEN A NEW SIGN AND
AWNINGS WERE APPROVED BY THE DC
AND IN TWENTY THIRTEEN THE
ISSUED A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS AND
LIGHTING AND OTHER WORK FOR THE
OPENING OF AVALON RESTAURANT IN
2012.
THE OWNER ALSO RECEIVED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO ADD THREE ADDITIONAL GROUND
FLOOR WINDOWS ON S FOURTH
AVENUE AND MODIFIED THE THREE
WINDOWS ON THE EAST END OF EAST
LIBERTY OF THE EAST LIBERTY
ELEVATION AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE SIGN AND THE AWNINGS WERE
RECENTLY REFACED FOR THIS NEW
RESTAURANT.
I THINK WE KNOW THAT THIS IS
THE CORNER OF EAST LIBERTY
STREET AND S FOURTH AVENUE AND
THE APPLICANT SEEKS APPROVAL TO
INSTALL IS A PANELS WITH A
GLASS AND TILE MOSAIC APPLIED
TO THEM AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF THE BUILDING.
THE PANELS WILL BE MOUNTED TO
METAL CHANNELS ATTACHED TO THE
BUILDING THROUGH MORTAR JOINTS
.
SO HERE WE HAVE THE LIBERTY ST
ELEVATION AND THIS IS THE
CORNER WHERE THE MOSAIC IS
PROPOSED TO GO.
SO IT'S NOT GOING TO GO PAST
THE WINDOWS ON EITHER SIDE.
THE EXISTING WINDOWS HERE WON'T
IMPACT THE WINDOWS AND HERE IS
A RENDERING OF WHAT IT WOULD
LOOK LIKE THE GLASS AND CERAMIC
TILE AND AGAIN IT'S ON THESE
PANELS THAT WILL THEN BE
MOUNTED WITH THE MORTAR JOINTS
.
HERE ARE SOME DETAILS OTHER
DETAILS AND YOU CAN SEE HERE A
LAYOUT OF WHERE THE FASTENERS
WILL BE SO NOT THROUGH THE
BRICK WHICH DOES BELIEVE IS THE
ORIGINAL BRICK AND DETAIL
OF THE WALL THAT BRICK THERE
THE WINDOWS AND THEN JUST SOME
PHOTOS FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE THIS IS THE SITE ON
THE CORNER THAT CORNER AGAIN
AND THEN FROM A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER BACK AND A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER FURTHER BACK.
CORRECT.
WE HAVE READ THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS TWO
AND TEN A FEW OF THE GUIDELINES
FOR BUILDING SITE IS
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN A NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND WHICH
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BUILDING OR BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY COMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE
FOR MASONRY IT IS RECOMMENDED
TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND
PRESERVE MASONRY FEATURES THAT
ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OUR
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING AND THAT'S NOT
RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE OR
RADICALLY CHANGE MASONRY
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT TO
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR SIGNS IT IS
APPROPRIATE TO ATTACH SIGNAGE
THROUGH MASONRY JOINTS AND NOT
UNITS OR THROUGH MATERIALS THAT
CAN BE EASILY REPAIRED SUCH AS
WOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT IS ALL FOR THE GUIDELINES.
JUST A COUPLE MORE NOTES HERE
AGAIN THIS IS A TWO PANEL GLASS
AND MOSAIC TILE THAT WILL BE ON
THE CORNER OF THE BUILDING.
LET ME GO BACK TO THAT CORNER
AND IT WILL BE THERE.
IT WILL BE ATTACHED THROUGH THE
JOINTS WON'T HAVE AN IMPACT ON
A BRICK.
AS I SAID EARLIER, THE GROUND
FLOOR OF THE BUILDING HAS BEEN
CHANGED WITH THE WINDOW SIZES
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT STAFF DOES BELIEVE THAT
THESE BRICKS ARE ORIGINAL AT
THIS CORNER THE PANELS ARE
HEAVY.
THE NORTH PANEL IS ONE HUNDRED
SIXTY TWO POUNDS AND THE PANEL
IS TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY EIGHT
POUNDS.
BOTH AN EXPERT MIZIN AND A
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER HAVE BEEN
CONSULTED ON THE PROJECT AND SO
THE MURAL WILL BE EASILY
REMOVABLE AND LEAVE THE
INTEGRITY OF THE BUILDING
UNIMPAIRED AND WE TALKED ABOUT
THE ATTACHMENTS AND HOW THEY
WILL BE THROUGH THE MORTAR
JOINTS AND STAFF FINDS THAT TO
BE COMPLETE APPRECIATES THE
ATTENTION TO DETAIL SO OVERALL
THE PROPOSED MATERIAL IS
GENERALLY COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN MACING AN
ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SITE AND
THE SURROUNDING AREAS AND STAFF
BELIEVES IT DOES MEET THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND THE INTERIOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK NOW WE'LL GET THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT ON THIS
PROJECT PLEASE.
YEAH IT WAS I MEAN WE'RE WE'RE
VISUALIZING IT BUT IT'S YOU
KNOW IT'S IT'S ONLY ATTACHED
THE BUILDING THROUGH THE
MASONRY JOINTS AND IT FITS THE
AND THE GEOMETRY OF THE
BUILDING JUST FINE.
I DIDN'T SEE ANY ISSUE WITH IT
OUT OF YOU.
THE MR. KAPLAN IT'S A IT'S BEEN
PROPOSED AS A BEAUTIFUL PIECE
OF PUBLIC ART IN A STREETSCAPE
WHETHER IT BE FOR PUBLIC ART
AND CONTEXTUALLY FOR THAT
REASON I THINK IT'S ADEQUATE.
>> OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
NOW WE'LL GET THE APPLICANT
PRESENTATION.
SO WILL THE APPLICANT PLEASE
STEP FORWARD STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD,
YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK.
YOU CAN PRESENT SOMETHING.
YOU CAN RESPOND TO WHAT YOU
JUST HEARD OR YOU DON'T HAVE TO
HAVE ANY COMMENTS IF YOU DON'T
WANT.
>> IT'S OK.
MY NAME IS HANNE KIRKPATRICK,
THE ART AND PUBLIC DIRECTOR AT
THE ANNENBERG CENTER.
>> I'M THE PROJECT MANAGER HERE
AND MY ADDRESS FOR THE ART
CENTER OR FOR THIS EITHER ONE
117 WEST LIBERTY STREET.
THANK YOU.
YEP.
I'LL JUST REPEAT THE COMMENT
THAT THE MOSAIC TILE HAS BEEN
DESIGNED TO FIT WITH A WINDOW
SCAPE.
IT'S NOT OVERLY LARGE AND IT'S
TAKING CUES FROM THE
ARCHITECTURE.
>> IT'S THE CHANNELS ARE
MOUNTED INTO THE MORTAR JOINTS
AND THE AZTEC PANEL IS MOUNTED
INTO THE CHANNELS.
AND HOW DO YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW
HOW THE MOSAICS ARE ATTACHED TO
THE PANEL?
IT'S THROUGH A BLUE BOOK AND
HE'S LIVED IN GROUP.
THANK YOU WAS AT YOUR COMMENT.
I DIDN'T I THINK I INTERRUPTED
YOU MAYBE I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION.
VERY GOOD.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS?
I JUST HAVE ONE WHEN I'M TRYING
TO VISUALIZE HOW THIS ATTACHES
TO THE BUILDING THOSE HATCH
PANELS ARE THEY ARE THEY
RELATIVELY FLUSH TO THE BRICK
OR DO THEY DO THEY STAND PROUD
OF THE BRICK?
THE THING I'M REALLY TRYING TO
GET AT IS EXACTLY IS INHERENTLY
SOMEWHAT FLEXIBLE
.
IF IT WAS FLOATING BUT THEN NOT
SUPPORTED IN THE MIDDLE I WOULD
WORRY IT'S SOMEONE LEANING OUT
OR PUSHING ON IT WOULD WOULD
WOULD FLEX IT AND THEN
DETERIORATE THE ART THAT'S ON
TOP OF THE EXACT BOARD SO
CHANNELS ARE ONE INCH THEY'LL
BE MOUNTED DIRECTLY ONTO THE
BRICK AND THEY'RE ALSO TO KEEP
IT LEVEL FOR THE FOR THE ACTUAL
IF THERE'S ANY DIFFERENCES IN
THE BRICK AND THEN IF YOU GO
BACK TO THE ELEVATION DRAWING I
DON'T HAVE IT MEMORIZED BUT I
THINK THEY'VE OH GOSH I CAN'T
SEE THAT BUT IT'S ONE FOOT FIVE
AND THREE QUARTERS.
>> YEAH.
INCHES SO LIKE ON CENTER ON
CENTER AND THE AZIGA MATERIAL
IS MOUNTED DIRECTLY TO THAT AND
THAT'S ONE INCH THICK TO BUFF
UP SOME OF THAT FLEXIBILITY.
OK, GOT IT.
OK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS JUST
ABOUT THE YOU KNOW BECAUSE IT'S
NOT PROTECTED AT THE TOP FROM
THE AWNINGS DON'T COME TO THE
CORNER SO ARE THESE CHANNELS
ALLOW FOR WATER TO GET BACK
THERE AND GET IT AND KEEP YOU
KNOW AND ER TO GET BACK THROUGH
THE DRIED OUT?
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THIS
MOISTURE RETENTION AGAINST THE
BRICK SO YOU TAKE IT BACK IT'S
THE DETERIORATED BECAUSE
MOISTURE HAS BEEN TRAPPED IN
THERE.
I THINK THAT CHANNEL IS LIKE
THE ONLY THING TOUCHING THE
BRICK AND THEN THERE'S WE POLES
AT THE BOTTOM TO ALLOW MOISTURE
OUT.
YEAH OK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
GREAT THANK YOU HANNA
APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT OK NOW WE'LL GO ON TO
A PUBLIC HEARING WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR ONE TWENTY
EAST LIBERTY STREET.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM HERE BECAUSE ONLY
APPLICANT IS LEFT IN THE
BUILDING WITH US BUT MAYBE
THERE'S SOMEONE ON LINE.
NO.
OK, VERY GOOD.
SO THAT'S THE PUBLIC HEARING.
IT'S NOW CLOSED FOR MORE THAN
TWENTY EAST LIBERTY STREET.
WHAT A COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM.
I I COULD DO IT.
OK, THANK YOU.
I WAS TRYING TO FIND THEIR I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 123 STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
MAIN STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO INSTALL IZAK PANELS WITH
GLASS AND TILE MOSAIC APPLIED
TO THEM AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF THE BUILDING THROUGH MORDRED
MORTAR JOINTS IS PROPOSED, THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP FOR
THE REST OF THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARD FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARD TO INTEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITES AND MASONRY ANY ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES OR SITES IN SECOND
GRADE THAT IS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN.
SO NOW WE'LL HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION.
I DID SEE THAT.
YEAH.
THE STRUCTURAL ENGINEER THAT
WAS THAT PROVIDED THE STAMP WAS
IS STEVE RUDNER AND SO I KNOW
THAT HE HE DOES HAVE A LOT
OF EXPERIENCE WITH WELL IT'S A
LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN GENERAL
SPECIFICALLY WITH HISTORIC
BUILDINGS.
HE'S GOT A LOT OF EXPERIENCE
AND I WOULDN'T BE SURPRISED IF
THIS IS BULLETPROOF AS WELL AS
THE YOU KNOW, EVERYTHING THAT
YOU HAD MENTIONED, COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN.
SO THAT GIVES ME A LOT
OF CONFIDENCE AND JUST IN FACT
THESE TO HAVE DRAWINGS LIKE
THIS FOR A SIGN OR A MURAL IS
PRETTY INCREDIBLE AND I LOOK
THROUGH THEM AND THEY'RE VERY,
VERY DETAILED AND I'M EXCITED
TO SEE THIS.
I WILL BE LOOKING AT THE
STRUCTURE AS WELL AS THE ART
OF EQUALLY SO WITH THAT ANY ANY
ANY COMMENTS HERE OTHER THAN
THAT SEEM VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
>> I'M NOT SEEING ANY COMMENTS
SO WE'LL JUST GO RIGHT TO A
VOTE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALTHOUGH OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIED YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
YEAH OK SO NOW WE WILL MOVE ON
TO NEW BUSINESS.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY DESIGN
GUIDELINES THIS MONTH TO REVIEW
SO I KNOW ALL VERY SAD ABOUT
THAT BUT WE DO HAVE A HISTORIC
MARKER APPLICATION SO ARE YOU
GOING TO REVIEW THAT FOR US?
THANK YOU NOT IT'S PUT UP A
PHOTO OF 13 THIRTY AND WE'VE
RECEIVED A HISTORIC MARKER
APPLICATION.
THIS IS NOT AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT BUT THE COMMISSION
DOES HAVE WELL CONSIDER
APPLICATIONS FOR HISTORIC
PROPERTY TAX AS LONG AS THEY
MEET THE CRITERIA IN THOSE FOUR
CRITERIA ARE INCLUDED IN THE
STAFF MEMO.
BUT I'LL JUST GIVE A QUICK
OVERVIEW THAT STAFF BELIEVES
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC
BUILDING AND MEETS THE FOUR
CRITERIA FOR A HISTORIC PLAQUE
.
THE BUILDING DATES TO NINETEEN
TWENTY SIX AND IS THEREFORE
MORE THAN 50 YEARS OLD HAS BEEN
MAINTAINED LARGELY IN ITS
ORIGINAL CONDITION.
THE BUILDING HAS A NOMINAL
AMOUNT OF HISTORIC FEATURES
OF NON HISTORIC FEATURES EXCUSE
ME LIKE THE FRONT STAIR
GUARDRAIL AND THE GLASS BLOCK
IN A BASEMENT WINDOW.
>> THESE FEATURES COULD BE
EASILY REMOVABLE AND REVERSIBLE
.
AND THEN FINALLY THE PRINCIPAL
FACADES OF THIS BUILDING ARE
ARCHITECTURALLY SIGNIFICANT AND
HAVE MAINTAINED FEATURES THAT
HAVE BEEN LOST OR COVERED OVER
ON MANY OTHER BUILDINGS OF THIS
ERA.
THE HOUSE HAS A RED BRICK FRONT
PORCH AND A FRONT GABLE ABOVE
IT MOSTLY ORIGINAL WINDOWS
FRONT AND REAR DOOR MIRRORS AND
A RED BRICK CHIMNEY.
THE FRONT FACING GABLE OVER THE
PORCH IS THE HOME'S MOST
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE WITH FAUX
HAVE TIMBERING AND A GERKIN
HEAD WHICH IS THE TERM THAT I
LEARNED OR CLIPPED CABLE ROOF.
SO THAT'S STAFF'S REPORT THE
APPLICANT INCLUDED AS PART
OF THE APPLICATION ALSO HISTORY
OF THE BUILDING CHANGES THAT
HAVE HAPPENED, PEOPLE THAT HAVE
LIVED THERE AND THAT IS ALL
INCLUDED IN THE PACKET.
SO I THINK THIS MIGHT BE I JUST
DON'T RECALL IF I'VE SEEN A
HISTORIC MARKER OUTSIDE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> SO I MEAN OBVIOUSLY ANYTHING
WE'RE NO LONGER WE DON'T HAVE
PURVIEW OF CHANGES TO THIS
BUILDING.
>> SO WHAT HAPPENS IF THERE'S
CHANGES?
IT'S JUST THAT THERE CAN BE
CHANGES BASICALLY RIGHT?
YES.
AND THAT THERE'S NO LIKE WE
DON'T GET TO TAKE THE MARKER
BACK AT AT THIS POINT OBVIOUSLY
IT MEETS THE CRITERIA.
YEAH.
IT'S NOT IN A DISTRICT SO I
DON'T KNOW THAT THAT WILL
FOREVER BE THE CASE.
INTERESTING.
OK, THAT WAS JUST A QUESTION.
OK, SO NOW WE COULD HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION ON THIS OR IF
EVERYONE IS JUST REALLY HAPPY
THEN WE COULD HAVE A MOTION.
IS THAT WHAT WE DO RIGHT NOW?
YEAH, JUST A MOTION TO APPROVE.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO JUST SAY
SOMETHING LIKE I MOVE TO
APPROVE THIS APPLICATION OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
>> I MOVE TO APPROVE THIS
APPLICATION.
RIGHT.
AND HEARING NO OBJECTIONS AND
SECONDED.
>> YES, THAT'S IMPORTANT
HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTIONS.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE TO VOTE
RIGHT.
WE ALL I THINK YOU SHOULD LET'S
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR THE
MOTION.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, THERE WE GO.
MOTION THAT'S BEEN APPROVED.
THAT'S IT'S REALLY NICE WHEN
PEOPLE WANT TO DO THAT I THINK.
OK, SO THAT'S THE NEW BUSINESS
FOR THE DAY.
OK, NOW WE'VE GOT APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE THE JUNE MEETING
MINUTES.
>> SO AGAIN WE WE NEED TO PROVE
THOSE.
SO ARE THERE ANY CHANGES OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
OK, SO HEARING SEEING NO
OBJECTIONS THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
THANK YOU AS ALWAYS TO THE CITY
STAFF.
IT'S COURTNEY MANOR WHO'S
WORKING ON THE AGENDA AS WELL
AS THE MINUTES SO WE REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT WORK.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS I NOTICED THE
OTHER DAY WALKING AROUND THE
OLD WEST SIDE AND I SAW AN
ARTICLE ABOUT IT THAT THERE ARE
HISTORICAL MARKERS FOR THE
ALLEN CREEK, THE BURIED ALLEN
CREEK ON THE WEST SIDE WHEN
YOU'RE WALKING ALONG THEY'LL BE
A BIG STICKER ON THE SIDEWALK
THAT JUST LETS YOU KNOW THAT
THIS IS WHERE THE CREEK USED TO
BE.
IT'S KIND OF COOL.
I MEAN YOU CAN TELL FROM
GEOGRAPHY THAT EVERYTHING'S
LIKE YOU KNOW LIKE YEAH, IT'S A
LOW POINT.
YOU CAN KIND OF PICTURE IT AND
IT GOES RIGHT UNDER PEOPLE'S
HOMES AND ACROSS BLOCKS AND
IT'S BURIED BUT IT USED TO BE
THERE AND I'M SURE PEOPLE HAVE
SEEN PHOTOS OF IT OR ANYTHING
BUT BUT NOW THERE'S LIKE
STICKERS ON THE SIDEWALK WHICH
IS KIND OF COOL.
ANY OTHER REPORTS COMMISSIONERS
?
NO.
THEN LET'S MOVE ON TO
ASSIGNMENTS WE'VE GOT THE
AUGUST MEETING.
IT'S A FIVE P.M. REVIEW
COMMITTEE ON AUGUST ELEVEN AND
IT'S GOING TO BE A THURSDAY
,
AUGUST 14TH MEETING.
SO EVERYONE CHECK YOUR CALENDAR
AND I'M GOING TO BE ABSENT
YOU'LL BE ABSENT FROM AUGUST.
I'LL BE ABSENT TO THAT WEEK.
YOU GUYS ARE SUMMER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
I KNOW I HATE IT THIS MORNING.
OK, WELL THAT'S INTERESTING AND
I FORGOT IF COMMISSIONER SMITH
SAID HE WAS GOING TO BE BACK OR
NOT AND I THINK HE DID ACTUALLY
SAY I'LL SEE YOU GUYS IN AUGUST
IS MY RECOLLECTION.
BUT ANYWAY IT'S JUST SOMETHING
TO THINK ABOUT.
OH AND THEN WE WILL NOT HAVE
COMMISSIONER FOR YEAR SO WE
NEED ONE, TWO, THREE.
ALL RIGHT.
BUT THERE WON'T BE A FOURTH I
WON'T BE THERE FOR SO RIGHT
AWAY WE KNOW THAT WE DON'T NEED
A REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR AUGUST.
ISN'T THAT INTERESTING?
THAT DOES NOT HAPPEN VERY OFTEN
AT THE MEETING YOU ACTUALLY
KNOW THAT NEXT MONTH IS NOT
GOING TO WORK AND WE'RE NOT
GOING TO GET A NEW COMMISSIONER
IN TIME.
I DON'T BELIEVE WE CAN IN FOUR
WEEKS.
COME ON.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY WE'RE GOING
TO TRY OUR BEST TO GO AS QUICK
AS POSSIBLE BUT OKAY.
THAT'S FAIR ENOUGH.
I DON'T KNOW HOW WE CAN I'LL
KEEP YOU POSTED IF IF IT
HAPPENS IN FOUR WEEKS.
OK, THAT'S FAIR.
OK, WELL LET'S DO YOU ARE YOU
OK MOVING ON WITHOUT NAMES FOR
YOUR COMMITTEE GIVEN THAT IT
SEEMS LIKE WE WON'T HAVE THE
MEETING OR DO YOU.
>> YEAH I THINK FOR NOW WE'LL
HAVE TO YEAH WE'LL HAVE TO
REGROUP AND DO DO IT ALL THE
MEETING WILL BE CANCELED
OTHERWISE I WILL SORRY IT'S
GOING TO I'LL BE I MEAN
LITERALLY I'LL BE IN TOWN FOR
THE MEETING BUT LIKE OUT OF THE
COUNTRY FOR THE ACTUAL THE
MONDAY THE DAY YOU'RE NOT
AVAILABLE EITHER OK I WOULD
HAVE TO BE ANYTHING RIGHT OK SO
SO YEAH THAT'S FINE.
JUST SO YOU KNOW THAT YOU CAN
ASK CHIP AND I HAVE IF WE CAN
DO IT OK WELL THAT WAS
INTERESTING MARIANNE ARE THERE
ANY REPORTS FROM STAFF.
NO VERY GOOD CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS THE
COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE TO
EXPRESS SPECIFIC TO YOUR JOB AS
A COMMISSIONER?
OK, GREAT.
THEN IN THAT CASE WE WILL
ADJOURN THE JULY TEN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING AT EIGHT TO
THIRTY ONE P.M. THANK YOU ALL